1

2
Savage  Company
Credits
Authors: Adam Martin, Owen Martin, Doug Morgan, with help from Bryan Miller and David Thomas.
Editors: Adam Martin and Owen Martin.
Artists: Lead art by Neil Pennington and Avery Way. Cover art by Marc Lee. Additional art by Tony 
Cezar, Ujac D. Kuvacic, Sarah Lindstrom, Dionisis Milonas, and Meagen Ruttan. 
Additional Short Story Work: Quinn McIntosh and Matt Johnson.
Design and Layout: Troy Daniels and Rick Hershey from Fat Goblin Games.
Special Thanks: Josh Collins and Mack Stingray.
Publisher: SHM Publishing
Savage Company Campaign Setting © 2020 SHM Publishing
Compatibility with the Pathfinder® Roleplaying Game requires the Pathfinder® Roleplaying Game from 
Paizo Publishing, LLC. See http://paizo. com/pathfinderRPG for more information on the Pathfinder® 
Roleplaying Game. Paizo, Publishing, LLC does not guarantee compatibility, and does not endorse the 
product. 
Pathfinder is a registered trademark of Paizo Publishing, LLC, and the Pathfinder® Roleplaying Game 
and the Pathfinder® Roleplaying Game Compatibility Logo are trademarks of Paizo Publishing, LLC, 
and are used under the Pathfinder® Roleplaying Game Compatibility License. See http:// paizo.com/
pathfinderRPG/compatibility for more information on the compatibility license. 
Open Game Content: All material — including but not limited to art, place and character names, 
character and setting descriptions, background, and new class descriptions—is Product Identity. All 
other content is considered Open Game Content. 
Reference in non-Open Game Content (thus not covered by the Open Game License) in this work to 
content owned by others is not a challenge to their ownership and is used under Fair Use.
Camp aign Setting
3
introduCtion 4
roll Call 5
tombstone 7
danger Close 14
iConiCs 20
small talk 22
the mark 30
if gams Could kill 36
trenChes 42
raCes 45
       Baade 46
       Kemano 51
orphan trail 55
       Lobstross 58
       Savage Bugbear 63
       Savage Hobgoblin 67
       Savage Kobold 70
       Savage Orc 74
       Skeletal 77
Classes and arChetypes 81
      Infantryman 82
      Combat Medic Alchemist 87
      Craftwright Alchemist 87
      Bugler Bard 88
      Operator Brawler 90
      Driver Cavalier 91
      Battle Chaplain Cleric 92
      Sophic Fighter 93
      Loadstone Kineticist 94
 the Way 97
      Zen Gunman Monk 100
      Steel Saint Paladin 101
      Roughneck Ranger 102
      War Orphan Sorcerer 108
      Phantom Warrior 109
      Blitzkrieg Barbarian 111
      Covert Infiltrator Rogue 113
      Skirmish Marauder Rogue 114
      Dominus Summoner 115
      Retribution Warpriest 116
      Apocalypse Witch 117
      Hexslinger Witch 118
lightning flashes 119
feats, skills, and spells 122
      Feats 122
      Skills 124
      Spells 125
rhythm of battle 128
equipment 132
      Weapons 133
      Armor 154
      Gear 160
      Ammunition 165
a steed most Worthy 169
VehiCle rules 171
      Vehicles in Combat 176
      Rolling Road Combat 181
VehiCles 185
      Land 186
      Air 194
      Vehicle Modifications 196
rumble 199
magiC items 200
roughneCk 209
iConiC statbloCks 212
taVern royale 237
author’s notes 240
the ghosts of tombstone 243
Table of Contents
4
If you find the idea of playing the same old fantasy races in every campaign and setting a 
bit boring, and you love the idea of running or playing in a game where various monsters 
clash in exciting gun battles, then this is the book for you. Savage Company is mostly 
a campaign setting book for monstrous races and expanded modern firearms, but it is 
actually so much more. This book includes info for the Savage Company campaign setting, 
which can be used in a homebrew campaign or dropped right into your favorite world. A 
setting where every freak or unwanted monster with the capacity for tactics and discipline 
come together to carve themselves a piece of land to call home. We also include new race 
options, including new races, reimaginings of old classic monstrous races, PC versions of 
some monsters, and expanded options for existing races; without the old assumptions 
that ugly creatures must be universally evil. You’ll also find new alternate classes, and 
a plethora of new archetypes that play into the setting’s unique strengths; namely, 
monstrous characters with more guns. We’ve also written new feats, spells, mundane and 
magical gear, and an entirely new ruleset for fighting battles while the battlefield is rolling 
by under your wheels, all balanced to be used alongside your existing swords and sorcery 
settings. There is a whole section for featured Iconic characters, which can be used as 
pre-generated characters, or as pre-written NPCs for your homebrew campaign. As well as 
many new NPCs unique to this setting.
If you prefer expanded, well-thought out options for monstrous PCs and modern guns 
rather than arbitrarily banning game elements that don’t appear in your favorite fantasy 
novel, then this is the book for you.
Wel Come  to  saVage  Company
5
saVage  Company  - the  business
Savage Company, the mercenary business, was originally started as a small band of 
Orcs and Half-Orcs seeking to establish themselves as a legitimate enterprise in a world 
that normally shunned their kind. Over time, and with a newfound base of operations, 
their notoriety and workload flourished faster than anyone could have anticipated. The 
original founders never expected this small family of mercenaries to become so large or 
so prestigious. After setting up in the ruined desert town that would eventually become 
Tombstone, the place became a hub for taking jobs and assigning them to would-be 
adventurers. In time, this fame would draw the attention of many more hired guns aiming 
to make something of themselves. Over the years, Tombstone would gather and grow to 
meet the demands of the Company and citizens. The majority of these people came to 
Tombstone looking for work from the more “monstrous” races, either as mercenaries or 
support staff. Savage Company became widely known as an outfit where anyone could 
get honest work killing people, regardless of what they looked like; and Tombstone was a 
place that welcomed all comers. The once small-time operation grew into a fully-fledged 
self-sufficient paramilitary group that would account for a significant portion of strength 
in conflicts all over the world.
roll  Call
It’s early.
The sun threatens to shine from just beyond the horizon, as a bitter, cold breeze sweeps 
across the salty, hard-packed ground. A massive orc wearing full plate armor walks a line, 
inspecting the new recruits. They stand in somewhat evenly spaced rows, mostly straight. 
A pair of sergeants patrol the ranks getting them into position, barking a growl or a flash 
of tusk to the unruly few who fidget or make noise.
“Y ou are all worthless sacks of meat!” he bellows, his deep voice booming over the 
sand.  The plates of his armor crash against themselves as he struts down the columns 
with a slow, controlled pace. Sarge stands tall over the recruits, looking down on the 
fresh faces that reminded him of the days of his youth. The veteran still had calluses on 
his hands from carrying the shells of his artillery squad as a child. Though he was always 
more of the squad’s mascot, the humans trained him on how to carry his weight and 
make himself useful.
“And in standing here before me, you are well aware, ” , Sarge projects once more. 
He lays eyes on a recruit that reminds him of himself. Strong, determined, stubborn. 
There’s a fire in the recruit’s eyes, just as there is in his own. The huge orc recognizes it 
well. That is the fire that guides the way. A sign he always looked for throughout the years, 
as it was the sign of a recruit that would take well to Sarge’s training. Orcs have always 
been driven by bloodlust, but some Sarge could teach to be driven by victory.
“We are all here for a reason, for a goal!” Sarge remembers well the old days, the 
fighting, the brutal reality of things. Senseless conflict, the young dying, for what? To 
maintain this cycle of raid and revenge? When a war finally ended, Sarge and many orcs 
6
and half-orcs like him were simply sent away. Many had nowhere to go, no home to 
return to. Even the warriors he had personally trained were scattered across the land with 
no place to go. Some would turn to banditry, and there would be another reason to raise 
troops.
“And with that goal, your meat is given purpose!” The brotherhood of the unit 
gained much by fighting together, but then they were scattered; lost without direction. 
They had been used as disposable weapons of war, but Sarge wanted to change that. 
He wanted a better way for his brothers-in-arms. He always fought to keep them safe; to 
teach them skills and not to turn back to raiding; to end the cycle of death for his kind.
“To anyone who would bow out, do so now… ” Sarge fought in countless battles 
and saw much bloodshed. He put his life on the line time and time again, and somehow 
always came through. To the younger generations, he was a legend and a hero to look up 
to. In trying to rally his scattered brethren, Sarge grew to be seen as a leader.
“for the coming days will be harsh and unforgiving. ” The young bucks followed 
Sarge closely and always listened to his words. They cherished the leadership he provided 
and rallied under one common banner. The pack grew a bit more each day as more and 
more younger orcs would arrive to learn from Sarge or his protégés and serve a greater 
purpose.
“But like those who would burn our homes, we must become stronger through 
tactics. ” Before long, Sarge had a small army around him, rife with contenders that shared 
a vision of creating a better world for themselves. One that made a difference. One that 
gave them a way to fight for the right reasons, and make some money while doing so.
“We have to become that which has evolved beyond the old ways and embrace 
something new. ” Sarge never wanted an army, nor did he want to be responsible for so 
many of his brothers, but he ultimately accepted his place and endured many hardships 
to give guidance to his kin.
“We must embrace our most basic instincts, and in doing so harness them!” They 
became mercenaries soon after, taking the name Savage Company. Sarge looked back on 
the memory with great pride and felt an overwhelming amount of honor in being a part 
of its birth. A new way of life for these beasts of war; one where they were never thrown 
away or had their lives spent like coin. He had set out to create a path of dignity for his 
kind, but he had ended up creating something else…
A Home.
“I say once more if you would bow out, do so now. To those who are staying… ” , 
Sarge planted his foot down, turning towards the formation. Now in his old age, he stood 
proud in front of the newest batch of recruits, his one responsibility the only job he ever 
felt truly suited him: training. He paused, looking across the pack for anyone who would 
leave of their own accord. When none left, Sarge let out a satisfied grunt and a slight nod.
“Welcome to Savage Company. ”
7
tombstone  is  a boisterous  boomto Wn lo Cated  deep  in  an 
inhospitable  Wasteland  full  of  monsters . no sane  person  
Would  eVer  Want  to  li Ve there . long  ago , a great  War 
bet Ween  tWo ar Cane  empires  blasted  the  land  and  ruined  it 
fore Ver , lea Ving  tWisted  beasts  and  Complete  de Vastation  in 
its  Wake . 
the  desert  itself  is  in Credibly  large , With  Verdant  lands  
and  magi Cally  adept  nations  to  the  north  and  south . there  
is  an  industrious  City -state  to  the  West , and  far  to  the  east , 
massi Ve Cliffs  that  tumble  into  the  sea . W hile  the  region  
Can  be  des Cribed  as  a desert , the  area  around  tombstone  
proper  is  Composed  of  hard  ro Ck CoVered  in  a shallo W layer  
of  densely  pa Cked  dry  soil . immediately  northeast  of  the  
to Wn is  an  old  quarry  Where  the  abundant  natural  stone  Was 
mined  in  an Cient  times , and  many  miles  to  the  southeast , the  
hard -pa Cked  ground  gi Ves  Way  to  a sea  of  dunes  and  eVer -
shifting  sand . 
tombstone
8
When the founders of Savage Company 
stumbled upon the ruins of an old town 
and a stone fort in the middle of a land that 
nobody claimed or wanted, they decided 
to make it home. By strong-arming, grafts, 
or diplomacy, the town founders managed 
to gain themselves independent status 
from the surrounding nations and even 
convinced them to divert railroads to 
stop at Tombstone. These rail lines are 
well protected and highly valued by the 
townsfolk. While the portion of the town 
above ground is not unimpressive, the 
true marvel lies beneath the surface. On 
the surface, a wide mile-long stretch of 
gravel road spans Tombstone from north 
to south. It is here that all notable surface 
points of interest can be found. A long, 
well-ventilated tunnel serves as the main 
subterranean thoroughfare, spanning 
a stretch of ground from the Hacienda 
south of town (now fortified and housing 
multiple clans of orcs) to the walled town 
to the North, passing directly beneath 
and connected via mechanical freight 
elevators to the Railroad Depot. Off of 
this main tunnel are many well-planned 
and smoothly carved rooms, side-tunnels, 
and complexes. Goblin, hobgoblin, and 
dwarven engineers work with modern 
tools and trox labor to continually upgrade 
and expand the undercity. Both literally 
and figuratively carving a home out of the 
wasteland, Tombstone has quickly grown 
into a bustling hub with mercenary work 
bringing in gold from all corners of the 
world and various industries and people 
setting up shop to take advantage of the 
new economy. 
old toWn
This is a fortified octagonal structure 
originally made by dismantling and 
cannibalizing the local stone buildings of 
the ruins that used to sit here. In the years 
since resettlement, it has been rebuilt 
and improved constantly. The buildings 
around the original town square have 
been built up to adjoin and support the 
exterior wall. The notable structures inside 
include a stable, a large service elevator, 
the Headquarters, the Jaq Rac Saloon, 
and the original church with its very tall 
bell tower that is used for observation. 
Most facilities and living spaces have been 
relocated into the extensive undercity 
carved beneath the old town. Deep in the 
undercity beneath old town is also where 
Gunpowder Blood’s workshop, the Bursar, 
and Armory vaults are located. 
Outside the old town is a circular field 
of tombstones that mark sector and 
range increments from the wall. Even 
The effects of this war in ancient times 
have left magic permanently twisted, making 
spells fail or outright unreliable. If you choose 
to implement this in your game, there are 
several ways to go about it. 
Low Magic: It is nearly impossible to cast 
spells or spell effects above 3rd level. Magic 
items that do not require activation that are 
brought into the wasteland and such things 
as alchemy seem to work just fine. Activating 
a magic item, casting a spell, or any spell ef-
fect above 3rd level requires a concentration 
check with a DC equal to 20 + the spell’s level. 
This is the default for the setting. 
No Magic: The city of Tombstone and the 
entire desert around it are under a permanent 
Antimagic Field. 
Wild Magic: Magic is possible, but it is 
often uncontrollable and unpredictable.              
 Use the Wild Magic rules from Pathfinder 
Roleplaying Game: Pathfinder Unchained
9
though their bodies do not lie here, the 
markers bear the names of the “Ghosts of 
Tombstone” , heroes who died defending 
the town in the early days before the city 
was fully carved out of the dangerous 
wasteland. Occasional small depressions 
mark where previously set mines in this 
area have been detonated by attackers. 
Recent construction has added a second 
wall and rampart around the field of 
tombstones. Word is that the mines have 
been deactivated and removed, but that 
might only be a rumor.
headquarters
This sizable building within Old Town 
contains multiple offices and bar-style 
desks that are populated by the employees 
that establish, track, and record all 
proceeds put forth by Savage Company 
field teams. Upon entering the lobby, 
hopeful prospects will notice a variety of 
teller windows. There is a long corridor 
past the initial room with multiple private 
offices attached in staggered offsets; each 
office is positioned along the walls of 
the main corridor. The back room at the 
aft-center of the main corridor houses 
the War Room. It is here that top-level 
personnel may convene to discuss delicate 
matters, establish battle plans, or divvy 
out operation orders to multiple teams 
all coming together for large operations.  
At any given point, there is a blustering 
aesthetic of secretaries, suits, and stacks 
of paper haplessly strewn about; the 
multitudes of bodies rush from desk to 
desk with piles of documents and stamped 
forms. Any attempts to migrate into the 
deeper areas of the Headquarters is often 
met with accidental collisions, dropped 
paper stacks, and insults thrown by native 
languages of the employees.
 
 
armory
Deep under Old Town, this series of 
fortified vaults are where Savage Company 
keeps its heavy ordnance. Always 
watched by armed guards, inside the 
clerks inventory, inspect, and maintain 
the vast stores of weapons kept here. 
Combat teams can requisition and return 
armaments here, but be sure you have 
the proper hand receipts! Most of the 
interactions take place through the half-
door of iron bars, but for larger items, they 
can open the whole door.
bursar
The Bursar is located near the armory and 
serves as the company treasury. Mercenary 
squads can go here to claim rewards for 
completing jobs and collecting bounties. 
This well-defended vault is also where 
the company stores its monetary wealth. 
Customers can interact with the clerks via 
a window protected with iron bars. The 
two main staple accountants are an elderly 
dwarf and a decrepit goblin. Neither one 
trusts the other not to embezzle company 
funds so they argue and oversee each 
other constantly.
da Clink  
(sheriff’s offiCe)
The Sheriff’s Office is a simple room 
in the undercity beneath Old Town. The 
main room houses a couple rarely used 
desks and chairs, and there is a hallway in 
the rear with carved out cells behind iron 
doors on both sides. The Sheriff, an old 
hobgoblin who’s quick with a gun, and 
his couple deputies keep a watchful eye 
out for trouble about town; but the lack 
of actual laws in Tombstone keep them 
relegated to investigating murders, and 
breaking up drunken brawls to mitigate 
property damage. This is aided by the fact 
that the orc tribes generally are kept in 
check by their own tribal leadership and 
are usually disciplined under their own 
10
tribal laws. The most frequent visitors to 
Da Clink are inebriated newcomers who 
might get in over their heads at the many 
drinking establishments and need some 
time to sober up and cool off. 
gunpoWder  
blood’s Workshop
This enigmatic laboratory is different 
every time it is seen. Gunpowder Blood 
(actual name in goblin is Ngat Quh) is an 
older goblin who is greatly renowned 
for being a brilliant genius engineer. He 
is constantly experimenting with new 
weapons and armor and trying to puzzle 
out the secrets of mystical artifacts that 
were brought back from missions by 
members of Savage Company. To the 
well-trained eye, this room also doubles 
as a fire-focusing chimney, and there are 
slit windows where apprentices can lob 
alchemist’s fire into the main chamber. As 
Gunpowder Blood is basically immune to 
fire, he sees this as a safety measure more 
than a workplace hazard. And since he 
often sets fires and ignites explosions in 
here, it’s good that the room can handle it. 
There is a gnome statue in his workshop 
with an uncanny life-like likeness. This 
serves Gunpowder Blood as a good luck 
charm, coat rack, and test dummy for 
various experimental weapons. The largest 
room in his workshop is twenty feet tall and 
sixty feet long. There is a freight elevator in 
one corner of the room which leads to the 
courtyard in Old Town on the surface. This is 
used to bring him supplies and parts for his 
experiments and custom orders. 
The regular deliveries to the shop are 
the only indication that Gunpowder Blood 
is still alive, leaving his workshop only if 
he is summoned by Savage Company or 
if Speedy wants a second opinion about 
gun placements on a buggy. The official 
entrance to his workshop is located in the 
Undercity. Inside, a sales counter can be 
found with a very nervous goblin behind 
it. Ever terrified, he will hear Gunpowder 
Blood bark out, “Hey get in here and hold 
this while I bang on it with a hammer. It’s 
not that dangerous. ” His apprentice goblins 
rarely stay or survive long in his shop. 
Gunpowder Blood is tireless and will binge 
on a project for days on end, and in turn, 
expects the same ethic out of his interns. 
He often comments to himself about the 
lackluster pool of applicants applying to be 
his apprentice.  
Jaq raC saloon
This three-story hotel is constantly under 
construction. The proprietor, a half-elf of 
refined tastes, is constantly expanding 
on the offerings of his establishment. The 
ground floor features a long bar made of 
imported wood, showcasing the expanding 
stock of various spirits and liquors. There 
are many tables spanning a 90ft floor for 
gambling, discrete meetings, and friendly 
gatherings. A large staff of various races 
act as ushers, bouncers, pit bosses, wait 
staff, and courtesans. The second floor 
features private meeting rooms which 
Savage Company will use from time to time 
for war rooms, interviews, and the odd 
interrogation. The third floor features 16 
luxury suites, 4 of which are rented monthly 
to high class, expensive courtesans. The 
owner, Francois Raynadiel envisions an 
oasis in the desert, one in which he can 
reap as much gold as possible. In addition 
to his home of operations at the Saloon, as 
one of the oldest residents of Tombstone, 
he has an extensive supply chain for 
bringing in goods and owns the General 
Store as well as several other food and drink 
establishments.  
railroad depot
This wide, single-story building has a 
large platform and cargo ramps, along 
with a water tower, several rail-sidings, and 
a repair yard. The complex with its many 
dangerous rail sidings is located on the 
11
west side of the main north-south road. 
The buildings and structures are all new 
and feature very recent construction by 
the surrounding nations. The relatively 
peaceful oasis in the middle of the blasted 
desert makes direct travel possible, where 
the previous trade routes were restricted to 
lengthy circumnavigation. 
boor and barrel
This tavern is located across the main 
road from Railroad Depot. The two-story 
inn and restaurant is a new establishment 
in Tombstone, the latest in a small but well-
known family chain in the greater region. A 
favored drinking hole of many adventurers, 
the Boor and Barrel features a wide variety 
of brews and cuisine to match the broad 
range of cultures in Savage Company. 
The internal layout features a large bar 
room with various tables and chairs, as 
well as an impressive bar that spans the 
length of the entire back wall. Despite the 
respectful reputation of the establishment, 
the owner often finds himself paying for 
broken windows and bar chairs. Always the 
hotbed of drunken brawls, the bouncers 
work around the clock to maintain the 
peace as much as possible. The front door is 
furnished with saloon-style batwing doors 
instead of a solid door. Seeing orc after orc 
thrown through the door made for an easy 
choice, rather than paying for a new one 
every week.
general store
The General Store is yet another business 
venture of Francois Raynadiel, the eccentric 
half-elf with lavish dreams of being a 
big time business tycoon. This oddly 
quaint store can be found in a convenient 
spot along the main road in Old Town. 
Though relatively small, the store contains 
everything that an adventurer could 
possibly need. Be it ammunition, potions, 
rations, or various other things, Savage 
Company teams can find whatever they 
require for survival. 
tent City
Both north and south of the Railroad 
Depot, in the land outside of the 
permanent structures, are many fields of 
tents and temporary living quarters. Set up 
by newly arrived supplicants to Tombstone, 
these campgrounds are filled with 
traveling animals, cook fires, and people 
looking for work. 
bounty board
Outside the Railroad Depot and along the 
main road, is a large wooden billboard with 
a small roof to protect it from the elements. 
One of the few features in Tombstone 
not made of the abundant natural stone, 
this board is covered by many tacked up 
pieces of paper advertising the various 
outstanding jobs that Savage Company 
has available to independent contractors. 
Freelancers wishing to accept a contract 
must often journey to Old Town and apply 
in person at Headquarters.
the underCity
While the mile-long dirt track from Old 
Town to the Hacienda is unimpressive 
above ground, its reflection beneath 
the surface is something else entirely. 
What started as hastily dug underground 
shelters, and then an access tunnel, has 
been progressively and aggressively 
expanded and refined over the years into 
a bustling underground community. With 
the help of dwarven engineers, goblin 
ingenuity, and trox industriousness, the 
Undercity is always growing and changing. 
Lighting is an afterthought as many of the 
races living and working here can see in 
the dark, so those that need it must carry 
their own lanterns. 
Beneath Old Town is the largest 
concentration of underground 
development. Many stairs and shafts lead 
down but there is also a freight elevator 
for large cargo and even vehicles. Most of 
12
the oldest excavations are here, along with 
some of the better-known establishments 
including Gunpowder Blood’s hardened 
laboratory, the sheriff’s office, the Jaq Rac 
Saloon’s lower levels, and the reinforced 
stone vaults of the armory and bursar. 
The original access tunnel from Old 
Town to the Hacienda is now a wide 
thoroughfare, complete with light rail 
track, multiple lanes of cargo and foot 
traffic, and a freight elevator to the 
Railroad Depot. Many offshoots from this 
tunnel hold pocket communities and tribal 
dwellings for subterranean Tombstoners. 
The Hacienda’s end of the main tunnel is 
less developed than the Old Town side, as 
most of the orcish inhabitants prefer open 
sky to tunnels. The more dangerous areas 
of the blacksmith and vehicle shops are 
relegated to underground bunkers, along 
with the refining and storage facilities for 
alchemical fuel. The freight elevator on 
this end continues above ground into the 
framework of the airship docking tower 
that is functional, albeit currently under 
construction.
haCienda (orC toWn)
At the southernmost end of the main 
road lies what was once a traditional 
adobe hacienda compound, complete 
with a protective wall, sprawling mansion, 
stables and barns, and spacious courtyard. 
At some point, an unsuspecting fool 
must have come here and built this place, 
perhaps as a retirement home. It was 
obviously abandoned for many years 
and has fallen into ruin. The inhabitants 
and builders had disappeared with no 
trace, leaving no clues to their identity or 
eventual demise. 
In the time since the founding of 
Tombstone, the hacienda area has been 
taken over by several industrious tribes 
of orcs, half-orcs, and goblins. The main 
building is mostly intact, and much of 
the space is covered in tents and banners 
and other orcish trappings. Goblins run 
a large blacksmith operation here, and 
there is a metal tower being constructed 
on top of the main building for airship 
docking. Visitors might wish to see the 
boisterous Grog Hole, a quaint, open-air 
drinking establishment in old orc fashion, 
with occasional blood sports and other 
distractions. The vehicle shop is unrivaled 

13
in its bizarre discoveries. Here, mad goblins 
attempt to bottle fire and make metal 
beasts with round legs. The orcs that ride 
these monsters are always pushing for 
more, more power, more armor, more 
speed, and more guns.
the kennels
The kennels are an essential part of 
Tombstone and Savage Company. Founded 
shortly after the settlement of Tombstone 
by a half orc ranger named Chavez, he 
and his faithful dire wolf companion Ubu 
started a long term breeding program 
with local worgs that arrived with orc and 
goblin tribes. The worgs were eager to 
participate in the program, with good pay 
and free room and board. The result of all 
this work has produced a new hybrid worg, 
the Military Working Worg (or MWW). 
The MWW has proved to be a highly 
intelligent and capable canine soldier, 
and makes an ideal quadrupedal support 
for many teams. Now the duo of Chavez 
and Ubu, along with many other handlers 
and apprentices, form the backbone of 
this Military Working Worg training and 
breeding center. The program has grown 
in scale over the years, drawing the eye of 
special combat units and elite guard forces 
from far and wide. Upon graduation from 
the training program, most MWWs choose 
to enlist with Savage Company and prove 
their worth, while others contract out to 
work with adventurers or foreign militaries. 
Every canine team wants to acquire the 
services of a Savage Co MWW, their skill 
and professionalism have become the gold 
standard in animal companionship.
speedy’s VehiCle shop
This large, industrious workshop appears 
to be a mess to the untrained eye. Even 
more so to those who know what they’re 
looking at. Within the confines of this 
smoky, noisy factory lies the beating heart 
of Savage Company’s mechanized units. 
Armored buggies, trucks, motorcycles, and 
even absurd amounts of firepower can 
be found in nearly every square inch of 
the place. Among the chaos of grinding, 
riveting, and welding, one will see whole 
teams established at each workstation. 
The workstations line the floors and walls 
from the entrance to exit, complete with 
devices for raising vehicles or hoisting 
heavy objects. The center aisle is left clear 
as a passageway for completed vehicles 
to make their exit trip at the rear of the 
facility, as well as a mostly safe lane of 
travel for customers. Along the far side of 
the western wall, the Dwarves and their 
R&D team house their experimental units 
behind a locked door and a sign with a 
crudely written message that simply reads 
“DANGER! Keep Out!” . The eastern wall 
features a balcony and a raised catwalk, 
the main office, and the employee locker 
rooms. Speedy himself is a clever orc with 
a knack for puzzling out the innards of 
alchemical engines. The generally happy 
orc can often be most easily found on the 
workshop floor, elbows deep in a project. 
the  Working  Worg
The military working worg is a new animal 
companion option available to all players.
Military Working Worg
Size Medium; Alignment usually neutral; 
Speed 50 ft.; AC +2 natural armor; Attack bite 
(1d6 plus grab); Ability Scores Str 13, Dex 15, 
Con 15, Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 6; Special Quali-
ties darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, scent; 
Languages Common, Goblin
7th Level Advancement
Size Large; AC +2 natural armor; Attack 
bite (1d8 plus grab); Ability Scores Str +8, 
Dex –2, Con +4.    
14
danger  Close
“DANGER CLOOOSE!” Shouted Sgt “Skin” Green, bellowing above the hail of bullets 
coming from seemingly every direction. The veteran half-orc dove to the side behind 
a log and lobbed a grenade over the hill, turning his rifle on the enemy. Ripper 
unlimbered his four belt-fed machine guns and started firing, slowly rotating and 
dumping live rounds over his killzone as he identified additional targets. The massive 
orc chuckled as he was hit with several enemy bullets, but no one could hear it over 
the cacophony of his guns. “Dregg’s dead, Doc!” Skin shouted, pushing the corpse of 
the ambush’s first victim to the side. 
Doc Akoni prepared and threw a bomb opposite to the direction of Skin’s grenade. 
Awaiting the blast, Doc then spotted something in the trees. He pumped his shotgun 
and fired, striking true on an enemy that managed to sneak in close. Skin continued 
returning fire, almost carelessly taking up a better fighting position by using the fresh 
corpse as a rifle rest.
Aleeshrak started banging out a cadence on her war drum, her reptilian teeth 
gleaming in a grin. She pumped a tiny green fist in the air, shouting, “Goooo team! We 
can do it!” The small Kobold bit down on her drumsticks, shouldered her stout tube gun, 
and launched a grenade into the trees. An ear-shattering thump rocked the vines and 
leaves, overshadowed by the screams of wounded men as they sailed through the air. 
For just a moment in time, Doc pulled his mind into a place he always went. A source 
of motivation, and of his drive. The baade medic was a man fueled by his desire to aid 
those in need, and give succor to the wounded. To him, his skill was his art, and his 
tools and potions were his brushes. Much to the dismay of some of his teammates, 
Doc was a man unafraid to throw himself headlong into danger to save others. Fear 
was never a factor to him, only the thoughts of how he could best aid his team. “Looks 
like Skin is unhurt so far… How’s Aleeshrak? She’s doing fine, no injuries… Ripper’s taken a 
few hits. Gonna have to patch him up, but he can run and keep up for now… Snot’s ok…”,  
Doc thought to himself, running through his mental checklist.
Skin tipped his helmet back and looked up in time to see enemy tracer fire lancing 
into a flight of friendly airships; tracer fire from the anti-air guns that his team was 
tasked with taking out. 
“This objective is FUBAR, we’re pulling out!” Skin declared to his team.
Ripper bellowed a warcry that could deafen the gods. The glowing barrels of his 
machine guns continued to spit lead, literally cutting down trees and enemies alike. An 
occasional spray of blood flew up from his body as he caught more and more gunfire. 
“GOGGLES!” He shouted. Snot hastily climbed to the top of Ripper’s ammo drum and 
wiped the soot from his goggles. “NOW PULL OWT, WUT IN HELLZ ARE YA WAITIN 
FER?!” He admonished his goblin cohort as he grabbed him from the drum in one hand 
and threw him in the direction of retreat. “FRAG OUT! GET IT?” He jested. 
15
Doc merrily hummed an upbeat tune to himself while keeping his horns down as he 
closed in on Ripper. He expertly loaded a green concoction into the injector on his pack’s 
mechanical arm, which then swung around to firmly embed itself in Ripper’s chest. 
“I’ll get you patched up proper once we’re out of here, but for now, that’ll have to do!” 
Doc blurted with cheer.
“Oooo-KAY!” Cheered Aleeshrak as she launched a smoke grenade to cover the exfil. 
She changed the tempo on the drum and batted her long, curled eyelid scales at Skin. “I 
told you I was useful, Sar’ nt!” She did a little pirouette and skipped nimbly over a fallen 
log with her clawed, scaly feet, head frill waving cheerily. Doc certainly appreciated 
Aleeshrak’s efforts, never minding her presence among the team. To him, she was 
a boon and an entertainer all the same. Skin rolled his eyes with mild annoyance as 
he pushed swiftly to his feet, moving toward the rear. Ripper covered their retreat, 
seemingly not wanting to relent in his barrage on the enemy. Doc threw a bomb, and 
the thick foliage started to catch fire; they used the burning trees to cover their retreat.
BANG!
Everyone flinched as the burning skeleton of a rigid hull airship came in low, clipping 
the treetops as it sloughed sideways into the field ahead of them, tossing a thick spray 
of mud and smoke into the air. The airship crashed down at the edge of the lightly 
wooded area the team had just come from, opening on a vast marshy plain. Ankle deep 
standing water filled the field among tall grassy plants that grew about five feet high. 
Doc circled to the far side of the craft and began pulling men out of the melting crew 
compartment. One was clearly done for, but the other three still had a chance to survive. 
He grabbed a half-orc crewman by the pack and dragged him out of the burning 
wreckage. “Hello! My name is Doctor Akoni, and I’m here to help! Please bite down on 
this… ” , Doc said, handing the man a rather big lollipop. 
Confused, the crewman looked back up at the huge horned and red-skinned man, 
hesitantly placing the confection on his tongue. Doc reached into his pack and pulled 
out a large pair of tweezers and some gauze. He tore the man’s sleeve open a bit more, 
revealing the point of entry and a trail of blood running down the arm. The crewman 
looked at the oddly shaped tweezers and then back at the Baade looming over him with 
a smile. “Uhhh…. Doc, is this gonna hurt?” The crewman inquired with a bit of worry in 
his voice, stifled by the lollipop. 
Doc let out a bellowing belly laugh, complemented by the way he threw his head back. 
“Ahhh hahahaha…. You’re going to feel a little pressure. As I said, bite down on that for 
me, ” Doc replied. The crewman’s heart dropped as the Baade medic’s huge hand spread 
the wound open a bit more. Doc’s mechanical arm jabbed its sharp-pointed jaws into the 
hole, aiming for a piece of shrapnel that had buried itself in the man’s shoulder. 
Skin hunkered down in the lee of the wreck, an already lit cigar in his mouth. Ripper 
flopped down next to him and accepted the second lit cigar. He puffed it lightly with 
his breath coming shorter, little wisps of smoke coming from some of the many holes 
dripping blood from his chest. Snot darted about, his fluttery hands trying to apply 
bandages to his master’s perforated torso. The second crash survivor let out a scream as 
16
Doc sawed through his lower leg, humming softly to himself all the while. Skin looked 
up from changing his socks and motioned for silence. Doc ceased his humming and 
injected his patient with something using the armature of his field-dok, and the patient 
fell silent. Skin gave his boot strings a final tug and leaned towards the team medic with 
an inquiry. “Why do you keep telling people you’re a doctor?” He whispered. 
Doc shrugged and smiled, preparing a long-winded reply to the Sergeant. “Well, if 
you’re bleeding out on a battlefield, what would you rather hear? Hello, I’m a doctor, or 
hello, I’m part of a mercenary hit squad that ki-” 
Skin swiftly interrupted his ally with a quick motion of bringing his finger to his 
mouth. “Shh!... We’ve got company. ” Said Skin, “everyone down!”
The enemy had spread out and began to circle the downed and fiery behemoth, 
lobbing potshots over the top of the grass as their fellows closed in. Coming in from 
almost a 180-degree arc, they meant to close in and surround the crashed airship. 
“Let’s move!” Shouted Skin, hopping to his feet and handing the third survivor a 
revolver. The man accepted it gratefully and checked the shells, apparently familiar with 
its use.
Doc turned to Ripper and injected another green potion into his unhinged ally. “Come 
on, big guy. We’ve got more work to do!” The jolly medic said to the huge orc, patting 
his ally on the back. 
Snot and Aleeshrak helped the newly amputated survivor to his remaining foot and 
started moving him. Doc picked up the unconscious man and tucked him under one 
arm, holding his shotgun easy in his other hand. Doc never seemed bothered one way 
or the other, merrily humming along as he rushed from cover. Skin bounded forward 
once more, cracking off a few more rounds from his lever-action rifle. They left the 
wreck and traversed across the open field to avoid getting cornered, but the enemy had 
them in a crossfire. Everyone that could was fighting their hardest while they fled; Doc 
took an impact in his armor, Skin lost his helmet, but it saved his head, the survivor with 
Skin’s revolver caught a bullet in the throat and went down gurgling, his blank eyes 
staring. Even the implacable Ripper stumbled, then staggered, then fell face down. In 
the heat of the moment, Doc knew what he must do. The hulking giant quickly realized 
that the man with a new breathing hole was gone. Sad, but there were still those yet 
to be saved. Doc rushed to Ripper and promptly rolled him onto his back. “Hey pal, I’ve 
got something really special worked up for you! Here, have a lollipop” , Doc grinned as 
he replaced Ripper’s half-smoked cigar with another confection. Doc looked at the cigar 
with mild disgust and tossed it away as the mechanical arm on his ruck swung around 
with haste, positioning itself for the next potion.
Doc pulled a dull-glowing blue potion with a cork top from his chest plate and loaded 
it into the arm’s injector. “Deep breath in, please…. ” Doc instructed, positioning the arm. 
Ripper heaved and huffed, half-heartedly raising an eyebrow at the rather large needle 
that was floating near his neck. “Aaaand… Exhale!” The needle slammed into Ripper’s 
neck, and the plunger rushed the blue liquid into Ripper’s vein. Almost instantly, the 
barbarian’s eyes lit up with an ominous glow, and the bulky beast roared as his skin 
began to vitrify. Ripper stumbled to his feet with renewed purpose and slammed his 
17
strapped fists against his chest, complete with a mighty warcry.
“Ripper! Cover us! Doc, cover Ripper!” Skin bellowed. The gun-toting barbarian flashed 
a wily, evil grin at his red ally and simply replied to the squad leader with a thumbs up. 
Snot hopped up onto Ripper’s ammo drum with his submachine gun in hand, and the 
duo began firing wildly in a wide arc, tearing apart the partially destroyed woodline 
aft of the party. Round after round struck the beast, yet most seemed to bounce off his 
now stony hide. Doc quietly whistled to himself from behind the cover of Ripper’s body 
and grabbed hold of one of the ammo drums wide straps. The medic gave his battle 
buddy a light tug, signaling his partner to move with him. The open-air of the crash site 
was awash with rampant gunfire, lead flying in all directions as it ricocheted from his 
flesh and poured out in an unending cacophonous roar from the four red hot machine 
guns on his arms. Realizing their gunfire did little against the buffed orc, the enemy 
mercenaries brought their bigger guns to bear against the unhinged maniac and his 
medic ally. Numerous volleys of mortar fire rang out from the trees, rattling the canopies 
and filling the skies with steel rain. Ripper reacted quickly, he grabbed the Baade and 
his cohort, and shoved them away with all the might he could muster. Ripper was left 
standing in the impact zone and received a shower of explosive death that would kill 
any mortal. “Ripper! God damn it, we’re almost to the exfil!” Skin said. “Aleeshrak, fire the 
signal! I just hope Warboi and Mav are ready…! I’ve gotta help those boyz!”
Aleeshrak shrieked with glee and loaded a colored flare into her grenade launcher. 
With a loud pop from the tube, a red flare soared high into the sky. Skin gave a hand 
signal to Aleeshrak and the remaining survivor to continue toward the ridge and broke 
away to rush to the other party. Doc got back up on his feet and shook the dirt loose, 
thankful yet worried that no one but Ripper took the brunt of the attack. Skin yelled out 
to Doc as he drew closer. “Doc! Just go, I’ll get Ripper! Keep moving to the exfil!” Skin 
shouted at the medic. 
“Sarge, I ca-” Doc was cut off before he could argue the order. 
“I said, GO! Don’t worry, I’ll catch up!” Skin blurted as he passed the medic and closed 
in on the downed orc. Doc knew the Sergeant was good for it and trusted him. As he 
began picking up the pace to catch up to Aleeshrak, Doc grabbed Snot and tossed him 
onto his shoulder. Skin slid hastily into a prone position next to Ripper, kicking up dirt 
from the crater he now found himself in. “And just what do you think you’re doing down 
here?” Skin asked Ripper, whose granite skin had returned to normal. 
“I slow… Huff… Them down, Sarn’t. Take many… Huff... Wif me too, I rekkin. I dun… 
Huff... runnin. Got me too many… Huff... Good death. ” Ripper said as he struggled to get 
the words out. 
“Big fella, ” said Skin, “shut your ass up. ” Skin hopped to his feet and grabbed the much 
larger orc by the belt and bandoliers. The half-orc lifted him like a sack of potatoes and 
dropped him belly down on top of his ruck and across his shoulders. “I’ll do the runnin, 
and you do the gunnin, how’s that sound, you daft git?” Skin said, turning his head to 
face Ripper. 
“Dat sound fine, Boss, ” he replied through a tusky smirk with only one eye open.
18
Skin quickly took off towards the ridge that broke the horizon over the standing 
plants, seemingly unfazed by the 400lbs green gorilla on his back, his long strides left a 
splashing wake in the mud and water. Ripper blasted away with his four light machine 
guns, spraying hot lead with wild abandon so that he could cover the retreat in spite of 
his wounds. Sergeant Green made good on his word and swiftly caught up with Doc, 
who was nearly at the low embankment on the far side of the marshy field. “Doc! Keep 
going! Don’t stop until you hit that far treeline!” Skin screamed at his ally, who looked 
back over his shoulder with a thumbs up. As the two converged into a running duo, Doc 
slammed his final potion into the golem arm’s injector. The gimbal swung around and 
slammed into Ripper’s backside, stabilizing his wounds enough to cover the remainder 
of their escape.
Skin and company continued their rush towards their objective beyond the current 
horizon, catching up to Aleeshrak, Snot, and their hobbled survivor. Upon converging 
into a single element once more, Aleeshrak and Doc lobbed smoke to cover their tracks. 
As the group crested the ridge and began their descent into another swampy field, 
Doc ran through his mental checklist once again. “Aleeshrak is fine… Skin is ok… Snot is 
somehow fine. Resilient little guy. Definitely gonna have to work my magic on Ripper… Gotta 
get the big guy into better spirits, ” Doc thought to himself. Despite having broken the line 
of sight from their attackers, the indirect fire still rained down with a completely random 
aim. Skin lead the pack with no visual indication of slowing down, though Ripper had 
taken the time to get what little rest he could upon the squad leader’s shoulders. 
“Split up! Don’t catch that mortar fire!” Skin barked, and the squad spread out to 
avoid being clustered together. The party followed suit and hastily trudged through 
the wet field. “Go for the treeline!” the squad leader continued. The team was only able 
to make it halfway through waist-high wet grass before the enemy forces began to 
crest the ridge. Gunfire hammered into the second field, ripping through the water 
and flora indiscriminately. Many of the foes bunkered themselves at the apex and fired 
down upon the company with increasingly accurate fire. Aleeshrak and Doc barely had 
time to face their attackers before the treeline at their destination erupted with dense, 
overwhelming firepower.
A massive bipedal machine with two enormous automatic cannons stomped its 
way out of concealment on bulky reverse-jointed legs. A high pitched cackle could be 
heard from up above while “TARGETING UNLUCKY BASTARDS, MISTRESS” bellowed the 
mechanical titan.
At its flank, Warboi’s buggy had burst forth from behind the warmachine. The vehicle 
accelerated ahead and kicked out sideways before coming to a sliding halt just as the 
party reached their newfound companions. Warboi himself hopped up from the driver’s 
seat and leaned over a part of the armor. 
“GET IN LADZ, WE’Z GOT GITS TA KRUMP!” , the deranged and half-mad orc shouted 
over the intense cannon fire that now pummeled the ridge. Skin and Doc worked 
together to lift Ripper into the buggy. 
“We need to get the hell out of here. Can you fit us all?” Skin inquired. Warboi looked 
19
down at his buggy and then back to the squad leader. 
“Grotz climb on top an da rest of ya jump in or hang on to the sides, ” Warboi instructs. 
The mercenaries follow suit with Aleeshrak and Snot climbing to the top of the buggy, 
while Skin climbed into the passenger turret and operated the heavy machine gun. 
The survivor found a place to ride on the sideboards. Doc climbed into the buggy with 
Ripper and began a more thorough triage of the wounds. Warboi shouted up to the 
giant robot just before stuffing himself back into the driver’s seat. “Mav! Cover our asses 
on the way out! Drinks iz on me!” The rowdy driver bellowed over the sustained fire Skin 
was laying down from the heavy machine gun.
“COVERING FIRE IN ACTION. PLOTTING INTERCEPT COURSE. ” The intense vocalization 
from the summoned machine rumbled in their chests even over the fierce gunfire. Doc 
glanced up and could see the tiny goblin summoner perched on the shoulder of the 
colossus, a considerable grin peeking from under her helmet. 
“Don’t worry, Ripper. We’re getting out of here. Everything is going to be just fine!” 
Doc said with charm. His robotic arm diligently removed bullets and shrapnel as 
he cleaned and dressed the myriad of wounds that had turned his body into fresh 
hamburger. Apply pressure here, stop bleeding, bandage there… Doc could find his 
element no matter what the setting was.
As the buggy peeled away and the eidolon began a firing withdrawal, Skin released 
the paddles and looked to the rest of the party. “Hey, good job today, everyone. I know 
things didn’t go exactly as planned, but you all did a great job of not dying, ” Skin told 
his team, expressing his pride and satisfaction with his fellow mercenaries. Each one 
responded in kind in their own ways, but Doc simply turned towards the squad leader 
for just a moment. 
“All in a day’s work, Sergeant. I’m happy to help!” Doc said as he reached into his pack 
for one last item… “Lollipop?”
20
iConi Cs
the follo Wing  entries  are  brief  introdu Ctory  bios  of our  iConi C 
npCs. these  featured  Chara Cters  Were  made  to sho WCase  our 
neW raCe and  Class  options , but  haVe deVeloped  into  muCh more . 
eaCh one  has  gro Wn into  a unique  personality  With  quirks  and 
interrelationships . all of them  demonstrate  the  rules  and 
items  presented  in this  book  and  Come  to life  through  Various  
short  stories  and  artists ’ renditions . We had  a great  time  
Working  With  these  Chara Cters  and  feel  they  help  ConVey some  
of the  tone  and  options  of the  Campaign  setting  When  used  as 
npCs or as pre -generated  pCs along  With  the  neW rules  found  
in this  book .

21
aleeshrak  - bugler  bard
While her people are generally not as harsh and xenophobic as their cousins, Aleeshrak 
was still too exuberant even for most savage kobolds. As soon as she could manage it, she 
struck out on her own to seek adventure. Everywhere she goes, her 
unbridled optimism and boundless enthusiasm serve to turn 
even the most humdrum acquaintances into fast friends. 
Since her arrival in Savage Company, she has become eager 
to learn about new weapons and tactics, bolstering her 
allies and fellow trainees.
In combat, Aleeshrak is wholeheartedly supportive. 
She uses her bardic performances to elevate the 
general mood and uses her spells to discourage 
resistance. When things get a little too hairy, 
she can always rely on her ol’ grenade 
launcher to speed things along.
Out of combat, Aleeshrak is a shrewd 
negotiator but knows how to let her 
fellow party members share the spotlight 
as the need arises. She can haggle with 
the best of them, ferret out tasty morsels 
of information, or even be a teensy bit 
threatening as the need may be. But 
her real strengths are in building 
relationships; nobody cares as 
deeply or feels quite as warmly 
as Aleeshrak’s scaly heart.
22
small  talk
Aleeshrak found herself enthralled among the towering spires and incredible 
decorative archways along the path to find their high noble retainer. Skin lead the pack 
of wily mercenaries, behind him was the imposing Ripper, taker of heads, who refused 
to unstrap and hide the pairs of twin machine guns strapped to each of his arms. 
His cohort, the ramshackle Snot, sat quietly upon his huge ammo drum. Doc Akoni, 
the gentle giant, followed close by. He was utterly enraptured by the beautiful, clean 
structures and fountains with running water. Aleeshrak sat perched upon his shoulder, 
chomping down on a lollipop while sharing Doc’s fascination for the city’s clever mix 
of humie high gothic art deco and elvish art nouveau architecture. Were it not for the 
confection, the tiny kobold bard would have been pouring out her “oohs” and “aahs” at 
the immaculate scenery. Statues made of stone, carved to perfectly resemble soft linens 
graced sidewalks and streets with perfectly straight lines and symmetrical orientations. 
A place where form and function coexisted in perfect harmony, thanks to dwarven 
ingenuity. Both Aleeshrak and Doc had never seen such designs, nor were either of them 
present for the initial meeting that Skin had established to land them their job in the first 
place. The smallest member of the party found herself with the largest fascination.
“Alright, so we just have to go find…. Uh…. Lord Sheraton and collect our payment. 
Then we can get the hell out of here” , Skin said to his following party. Ripper snorted in 
confirmation, Aleeshrak wasn’t sure if it was because he understood what was going on 
or not. Aleeshrak’s eyes and ear-holes perked up with the realization of opportunity. Ever 
conniving but always keeping her team in mind, the scaley little woman sought a prize 
only ever afforded to those members of high society with fat coin purses.
“Sergeant! Can we stay the night in one of these fancy hotels? Pretty please?!” She said 
with fervor.
Skin sighed and slowly dragged a hand across his brow, never ceasing his pace across 
the carved marble and limestone street. Aleeshrak knew he wasn’t exactly a fan of 
extended stays around these types of settlements, but he also cared for the morale and 
welfare of his team and could use some relaxation after that job.
“ ....... Alright. Fine. The noble we’re looking for is in a restaurant that’s part of some 
fancy hotel. We’ll see about staying there. We should have enough pay to handle a night. 
But don’t be surprised if they just flat out refuse to serve us. ” Skin said to the kobold. 
Aleeshrak let out a high pitched squeal of glee, ever excited to sleep in a big bed in a 
building with running water. The bard lept from Doc’s shoulder and rushed forward to 
embrace her fearless leader with the kind of affection that would convince anyone that 
they are truly loved. Skin brushed the notion away, but Aleeshrak knew in her heart that 
he valued her and all her effects for making a man feel ten feet tall over the smallest of 
favors. She happily hummed her way back to Doc and returned to her seat on his broad 
shoulders, courtesy of a little help from the big guy himself.
Before long, the ragtag group of mercs entered a pristine building with brilliant high 
arches and gilded floral trim, a strong indication of elvish design. Aleeshrak found herself 
23
positively enraptured by the immaculate decor, drinking in the sights before her. The 
opulence and luxury, unlike anything she had seen. The two well-dressed bellhops at 
the doors looked back at the party in confusion, unsure if they were lost or misguided. 
Skin ignored them, as he knew exactly where they had to go. Ripper couldn’t help but 
carelessly brush a few trinkets off of a nearby banister with his shoulder, drawing more 
undue attention to the party. The commotion caught the attention of the patrons, 
drawing nearly every eye in a vast dining room. What they saw was ugly, dirty, and 
unwelcome among the clean, gorgeous architecture. One of the high nobles cleaned his 
mouth with a napkin and placed it down on the table.
“Ah, Sergeant Green! I see you and your lot made it out just fine… You do realize that 
you could have sent for a missive, correct?” The noble stated.
Skin sighed under his breath, realizing that the path of expediency may have been 
the less favorable route, chose to stay the course, and collect their payment before 
heading back.
“Yeah, about that… We figured it was easier to just meet in person. No need for you to 
waste your stationery when we could just swing by” , Skin replied to the sharp-dressed 
man in suede shoes. The elvish woman to the noble’s side placed her napkin down as 
well, choosing to remain seated as she spoke up.
“Oh, dearest, please. Let the outsiders have their sight-seeing trip. They likely aren’t 
used to such luxury in their life of brutality, ” the elvish noblewoman said with palpable 
condescension. Skin’s lip curled upward off his tusk with bitter intent, but Aleeshrak was 
prepared for some witty repartee. The little kobold stepped in, as she felt it necessary to 
save the party from relentless undue mocking. 
Aleeshrak hopped down from Doc’s shoulder and landed with as much grace as she 
could muster. The tiny kobold skittered up to her leader’s side and gave his pant leg a 
tug, looking up at the half-orc. She gave Skin a sly wink of the eye, letting the squad 
leader know that it was his turn to take a step back. The noblewoman raised an eyebrow 
at the kobold, concealing her disgust for such creatures. Skin looked down at Aleeshrak, 
then back at the noblewoman, then down to Aleeshrak once more. He paused for a 
moment, realizing that she was better equipped for the conversation at hand.
“Alright, but don’t get us run out of town. We’re barely welcome as it is, and we still 
haven’t gotten paid” , Skin muttered. Aleeshrak grinned, nodding at her comrade. She 
turned back to the elvish woman and took a few steps forward.
“That’s very nice of you to allow us the time to partake in your city’s lavish 
commodities. I can’t seem to remember a time when I had so much fun mingling with 
such rich and well-to-do citizens, ” the kobold said to the noblewoman. The elvish woman 
turned her head slightly, never losing sight of Aleeshrak.
“I see. I can assure you that our fine city offers little that can be compared to the town 
of Tombstone. Their wares and woes seem… Hmm, more your speed, little one, ” she 
replied with malicious intent.
24
“Oh yes, Tombstone is quite nice as well. Though that town seems to offer less in the 
way of impressive design. I think we prefer this city a bit more. Could you recommend 
something here? Surely a woman of your prestige would have rather intimate 
knowledge of the city and her folk, no?” The kobold replied.
“Well, the little one has done her research. As the Mayor’s wife and manager of 
community outreach, why yes… It is precisely my place to know the ins and outs of 
our lavish society and all her people. Tis but a shame such knowledge comes at the 
price of a swelling mind and sleepless nights coordinating events. I’ll spare you the 
details. I wouldn’t want that tiny head bursting with useless knowledge on my account, ” 
the elvish woman replied, standing up from her seat to look down upon her social 
company.
“Oh, but I encourage you to bore me with the details. You see, I’ve heard some rather 
interesting things about your events. I’m sure everyone is well aware of the hedonistic 
concerts and fashion shows. But tell me… Does your husband know about your… 
Hmm… How do I put this… More personal events?” Aleeshrak replied with a sinister 
grin and casting a sly glance at her green-skinned compatriots. Skin started to realize 
that while Aleeshrak had never stepped foot in the city, she had obviously gathered 
intelligence on her own somehow. Ripper and Skin looked at each other with mild 
confusion, then back to the spectacle at hand.
The noblewoman’s eyes widened three times their standard size, and the elvish 
woman quickly realized that her opponent came armed with a figurative weapon of 
mass destruction. The Mayor raised an eyebrow with confusion, glancing towards 
his wife, whose face started to glow with a rosy hue. Nearly as red as Doc, who 
was seemingly more interested in something shiny nearby rather than the expert 
interlocution of his favorite teammate.
“Honey of mine, whatever does this little kobold speak of?” He said to his wife, the 
pleasant smile on his face betrayed by the stern tone of his voice.
The elvish woman stuttered a bit, struggling to find the words to bare against her 
verbal opponent.
“I… I am unsure, my love. Clearly, she jests, as the office of community outreach 
is nothing but translucent in all business conducted in the city’s name. But I will 
speak no more of this. Tell me, little one. How may I assist you in finding the proper 
accommodations?” The elvish woman said, gritting her teeth. Her rising blood pressure 
was nearly visible to all, as Aleeshrak had clearly struck a nerve.
Skin’s face washed over with complete confusion at this point, unsure of exactly what 
had just happened. Doc, who remained blissfully unaware of the engagement, carefully 
poked at a rather expensive looking decoration on the wall. Ripper chuckled to himself, 
seemingly more aware of what Aleeshrak had implied, or possibly amused at some 
unrelated fancy. The tiny kobold knew precisely where she had her conversational 
partner, and stifled the urge to look back at her leader with pride.
25
“Welllllll… Since you’re so nice to offer… I would like rooms for each of my 
companions, with full room service. Two of those rooms will need to have extra-large 
tubs for the big guys over there. They’re rather dirty after fighting for your right to 
continue living such an extravagant lifestyle. I’m sure you understand. ” Aleeshrak 
replied with an even bigger grin. The room was suddenly filled with the sound of 
something expensive shattering on the floor, and Doc stood at ground zero with wide 
eyes, holding his hands up as if to imply he had nothing to do with the glass shrapnel at 
his feet. There was a pregnant pause as the elf slowly processed the request. 
“That…! The only rooms that have extra-large tubs are our VIP suites. Surely you 
understand I can’t simpl-” Aleeshrak cut off the elvish woman, who gritted her teeth at 
the kobold while casting a few glances at Doc.
“Yes, VIP sounds wonderful! Actually, could you upgrade ALL the rooms to VIP? That 
would be super swell of you. It would mean the world to us if we could put upon you 
for just this one night. I promise we’ll be out of your hair before second breakfast 
tomorrow morning! That should give you plenty of time for your… Event… Later 
tomorrow night, ” The tiny kobold replied, bearing a wide grin at the woman before her.
The elvish noblewoman’s eyes grew even wider, along with a pulsing vein that began 
to throb its way out of her temple.
“How are… Fine! VIP rooms for everyone!” the noblewoman replied. “Concierge! I 
want our five finest rooms prepared for our… Guests! Spare no expense to ensure their 
stay is nice and QUIET!”
The Mayor looked more confused than ever, curious about his wife’s sudden outburst 
of kindness. The elvish noblewoman sat back down, placing her napkin into her lap 
and picking at her dinner. Aleeshrak looked back at Skin with a huge smile, proud of 
her verbal conquering of the Mayor’s wife. Skin looked upon the tiny kobold with awe, 
forever grateful that her sometimes grating personality was made up for by the boon 
she provided to the team. As he was always a man with a purpose, Skin cleared his 
throat and reengaged the Mayor for their pay. 
“Right, so uh… Hrmph… Yeah. Anyways, if I could just get that payment, we’ll go 
ahead and be on our way… to our rooms… ” the Sergeant said. The Mayor nervously 
chuckled before pulling a large, decorative sack of gold pieces from his fancy coat.
“Yes, yes, very well… Here is your payment for the job, as agreed. Now please, I must 
finish my dinner, ” the Mayor said, waving a dismissive hand to Skin after handing the 
half-orc the sack of gold.
Skin inspected the sack, shaking it a few times just before his brow ruffled in discontent.
“Seems a little light… I was made to understand there was a bonus involved. You 
said we had a week, and we accomplished the mission in a day. Surely we deserve a bit 
more than this, ” Skin said to the man. The Mayor sat back down in his chair and looked 
up at the Sergeant. But before he could speak, Aleeshrak chimed in once more.
26
“I say, some of the funding must have gone to his special friend… that OTHER person 
of brutal lifestyle that can be seen climbing through windows of the Mayor’s estate late 
at nigh-” Aleeshrak was promptly interrupted by the Mayor.
“YES! Ah, how could I be so rude? Of course, your bonus!” He said nervously, pulling 
another more weighty sack from his coat. The Mayor’s wife slowly raised an eyebrow 
while staring straight at the tiny bugler and her wily grin. “Please, take this as well, and 
do run along to your rooms! They’re surely ready for you now… RIGHT now, hah. ”
Skin grabbed the fat sack of gold from the nobleman with a grin and gave the Mayor 
and his wife a silent farewell. As he turned back towards the lobby, Ripper, Snot, Doc, 
and Aleeshrak all joined in higher spirits.
“That was great, Aleeshrak! I have no idea what just happened, but you got us 
rooms, and we even got better pay! This is fantastic!” Doc said, barely containing his 
excitement.
Skin retrieved the keys from the concierge and made for the elevator, muttering a bit 
over his shoulder to his kobold ally.
“So uh… How did you know all that?” Skin said to Aleeshrak. The tiny kobold chuckled 
a bit, trying to stifle her laughter.
“Oh Sergeant… I just know things, that’s all; a lady has her secrets!” Aleeshrak said, 
winking at her leader with a wily grin. She knew Grrzelga would not be pleased if her 
secrets were brought to light.
27
afu  - W ar  orphan  sor Cerer
The only respite from the chaos of war that Afu 
Ferdinand has ever known is the calming orderly nature 
of magic and the rules that govern it. Orphaned 
as a small child, Afu did not remember his parents 
and was raised in various orphanages in human 
lands until his gifts began to manifest. Those places 
were none too sad to see him go, as his stiff bearing 
and lack of emotional display left them somewhat 
disheartened.
Not taking to the life of tutelage required by his first 
fostering Mage, Afu pursued independent magical 
study. He would hire out his services in defense of 
travelers to make his way to various libraries and houses of 
learning across the land. He loves to ferret out tidbits of magical 
knowledge to increase his understanding of the arcane.
Afu seeks order in all things, knowing full well that war is 
chaos, and no plan survives first contact with the enemy. 
He is stoic and fastidious, suffering hardships with a 
grim determination born from years of grief.
Though Afu could be bitter or full of self-pity, he 
strives instead to change the injustices of the world. 
He can sometimes be a bit naive in his idealism but 
can be ruthlessly pragmatic when the chips are down.
He is one of the youngest members of Savage Company, 
rising swiftly through the ranks despite his youth due to 
his self-discipline and fantastic ability. He is an unrivaled 
professional and seeks to accomplish the mission above 
all else.
doC - field  medi C alChemist
“Doc” Akoni is a large Baadan striding through adulthood, hailing from a smaller family 
clan. Though not as successful or as rich as other clans, his family tried to provide him with 
the best education and opportunities they could. Much like Baadan culture, his family was 
everything to Doc. The honor and independence of his family were of utmost importance 
to him, and it was some of these things that motivated him to become a doctor.
Always a dreamer, Doc sought to empower his clan and bring back as much knowledge 
and skill as possible. When he was young, he often felt drawn to help patch the warriors’ 
injuries. In adolescence, he would continue to use these meager skills alongside his 
brothers in battle. Being a middle child with no certain destiny, he decided that learning 

28
medicine was the best option for a career that held promise both for himself and his clan. 
With his pack and all his dreams, Doc left to seek training among the most skilled doctors 
in the land.
The Baade’s training went well for the most part. Doc was a quick study and even began 
modifying well-known techniques to better work with his oversized hands. However, the 
dream of striking out and seeing the world was always in the back of his mind. Sometime 
before his graduation, Doc heard of a job that would put his skill to the test. This “Savage 
Company” he read about desired those with a strong aptitude for learning and an even 
stronger will. The reward was adventure, fame, and more money than any person could 
29
carry. With stars in his eyes, Doc knew that this paramilitary group would give him exactly 
what he wanted in life. Soon after, Doc became a well-known asset among Savage 
Company field teams. 
Always cheerful, always motivated, and always on time. The red medic is precisely the kind 
of man you want in your foxhole. Even today, tales of the imposing Baade make their way 
around the taverns. Stories of a cheerful, upbeat man with a heart of gold, throwing himself 
headlong into danger to save those in need. What the anecdotes often fail to mention is 
Doc’s care packages that make their way back to the clan. Money, supplies, books, anything 
Doc gathers along the way that can aid his family. Even the occasional lollipop.
grrzelga  - skirmish  marauder  rogue
Though not commonly known, Bugbears are among the craftiest when it comes to 
woodland warfare. One of the craftiest is Grrzelga. Much of her younger years passed 
in solitary hunting, perfecting her craft by taking on the more massive and dangerous 
game each time. These days she takes it easy, scouting deep behind enemy lines and 
doing infiltration and high-value target jobs for Savage Company. Sure, it’s a pain to have 
to deal with people all the time, but Grrzelga fancies herself somewhat enlightened for a 
Savage Bugbear.
Grrzelga seems rather quiet to most party members, keeping to herself, and rarely 
offering more than monosyllabic responses. Still, her inner thoughts are more perceptive 
than her grizzled exterior might suggest. 

30
She is an absolute terror on the battlefield, striking for devastating amounts of damage 
with her long rifle, or crushing opponents up close with her massive sword.
While not easy to warm up, Grrzelga cares deeply about her friends. She shows this 
in her own way, by violently dispatching those that threaten them, or by begrudgingly 
allowing them in close proximity.
Grrzelga is someone you want on your side, and also someone you do not want to be 
your enemy.
the  mark
When I was just a little boy, my home was ravaged by orcs. They say the bastards 
don’t fight for personal reasons, but rather just to fight. Well, they made it a little damn 
personal when they killed my parents and smashed my very first painting. I always 
liked the good memories, always tried to draw them or paint them. Not the ones about 
fire, or screaming. But alas, those painful memories motivate the most. I kept a little 
sketch I made of my parents in the breast pocket of my fatigues.
It’s something I would hang onto even in my later years, relishing the old hobby in a 
new way. I found that overcoming the bad memories is easier when you replace them 
with good ones. Ones like poppin’ a brute’s skull from nearly a mile out. Dial-in your 
field of view. Set your focus. Exhale. And…. Pop!
Rack the bolt. Slam another round in the chamber. Line up the next shot. I was damn 
good at what I did. I took a lot of pride in the life of a marksman, and I was well-known 
for my specialty of taking out those infernal orcs and goblins, the entire lot. They 
deserved it after all the pain they caused me, after everything they took from me… But 
I digress.
The scenery was always lovely. I couldn’t help but take in the view, overlooking a 
lush, green valley. The setting sun at my back had cast a beautiful orange glow and 
made this delightful little spot feel like someplace just outside of Heaven. Figured I’d 
take the time to appreciate the place after silencing my mark.
The Rogue’s guild paid me a lot of money to pop some enemy sniper that’d been 
harassing their mercenaries. All of ’em hired by a minor noble in some conflict. I nearly 
jumped at the chance, to tell the truth. Didn’t care much for the dangers, nor the 
consequences. I assumed there would be a struggle against the bastard, but I had time 
and patience on my side. Guess no one thought to take him out while he was alone.
Simple job, really. All I had to do was wait.
“Thirty-six hours,” I thought to myself. “Thirty-six godsforsaken hours, I’ve been stuck in this 
damn jungle…”
31
Things really got serious after I found the bodies. Both mercenaries assigned to be 
my guide and spotter had gone missing a day before. Serg I discovered first, his corpse 
mounted on a pike as if he were a grotesque sock puppet on display and Alric… his 
skin had been flayed in one piece from the waist down like a suit of gruesome pajamas 
from the pit of hell itself. The splatter seemed to suggest he was still alive at the time. I 
stifled a gag remembering the scene.
My movement had to be sparse, or he’d see me. I had to be careful not to jostle 
the surrounding flora too much, or I’d give away my position. Adjusting the focus on 
my scope had to be done in tiny finger movements. I ended up havin’ to piss myself 
somewhere along the lines… Better than gettin’ my head blown off by whoever was 
out there.
Whoever he was, he was good. Real good. Fast as hell, as I’d lose him in plain sight 
when he rushed from cover to cover. He knew I was out here, too. he managed to 
smack one of my decoys with something big and angry. Barely heard the damn thing, 
but I sure as hell knew when that bullet shattered the only spare helmet I had set on a 
stick.
The mud I’d smeared on my body had long since dried, but it still served as useful 
camouflage. I felt some vermin creature slither across my neck. Hundreds of little legs 
stabbed at me, begging me to move. Almost as if the jungle was taunting me, trying to 
goad me into making the first mistake. I knew better… And I knew that if I screwed up, 
the other guy would get me.
“How did I let those assholes talk me into this…” , I pondered. The money was good. 
Too good, actually. I should’ve known better when some of the toughest bastards in 
the place wouldn’t touch this job…. However, I was motivated by money. Regardless, I 
found myself engaged in the fight of a lifetime. It came down to either me or him.
And wouldn’t you know it, the son of a bitch slipped up? Made the mistake of leaving 
a decoy out to the east and trying to spot me from the west. I carefully slid my finger 
down onto the trigger and lined up my crosshairs. Could barely see him through the 
foliage and fog, but I was confident he was there. Damn sure of it. There! The large 
silencer can on that beast of a rifle was a dead giveaway. Exhale…. Squeeze. The gun 
cracked the silence with a thunderous roar, and I watched the bastard’s head pop like a 
grape… Or so I thought.
Within moments, I felt a shiver run down my spine. Something moved the brush 
behind me, shoving the leaves and branches aside. I rolled over and tried to draw my 
pistol, but the sudden flashing gleam of steel sent my arm flying through the air, pistol 
still firmly stuck in my hand’s grasp.
I screamed I’ll admit. Partially because my arm had just been severed, partly because 
of what was holding the goddamn greatsword. A huge bugbear stared me down for 
just a moment, yet it felt like an eternity. I got a good look at them…
This one…this one isn’t like the ones I’m used to seeing. Not like a dumb bruiser, 
you find bouncing at some frontier raider’s bar. No…this one... she’s a clever one. And 
32
yeah, a female bugbear at that. Don’t see many of those around...but you can bet your 
ass they see you. This girl is clearly the smarter of the two of us. Starting to get tunnel 
vision. I can’t help but notice through the pulsing haze a Savage Company insignia on 
her rolled fatigues as she steps closer. Damn my luck, damn my arm! Should’ve figured 
it was someone with experience, judging by how she played me like a damn fiddle….
The humie sniper was about to pass out from blood loss at this point. Grrzelga looked 
down upon her prey with curiosity and wonder. As she rummaged through his bag, 
grabbing what was left of his food and a few other bits of useful gear, she pondered to 
herself about her felled opponent.
“This one ain’t so useless after all…” she thought, placing the tip of her greatsword 
on his sternum. He began to scream as she pressed it slowly into the bone, his stump 
spraying blood as he scrabbled in the loam trying to crawl out from under the blade 
pinning him like a bug. “A shame that we couldn’t see eye to eye. This ‘oomie would’ve done 
well alongside the comp’ny…. ” The huge Goblinoid pulled a scrap of rolled parchment 
from her sack and unrolled it, revealing a strike order with a moderately accurate sketch 
of the man’s face. Grrzelga dabbed her thumb in the man’s blood and imprinted her 
mark on the page, right over the man’s picture. As she rolled the vellum back up and 
stuffed it into her sack, she looked down at the man one more time and pulled her 
sword out of his chest. A fly buzzed over his lifeless corpse, landing on one of his empty 
staring eyes.
“Shouldn’t have gone for the second decoy, boy. ”
As swiftly as she rushed from the brush, the huge bugbear faded back into the jungle. 
There was always something more she could do, but Grrzelga felt satisfied knowing 
that the area was now clear for her team to move through, at least safe from the threat 
of any more marksmen.
33
hoaka  - battle  Chaplain  Cleri C
The baadan family structure has traditions passed down for thousands of years, some 
of them more stifling than others. Hoaka’s clan was one that held to those traditions 
more closely than most, and their line traced back for scores of generations with very 
intentional pairings to grow the tribe and foster the traits that would mean the clan’s 
survival through strength and steadfastness.
Hoaka held to these traditions within her clan and was as steadfast and proud as 
her relatives could have hoped. When those traditions threatened to force her into an 
arranged marriage she didn’t want, she decided to make a foray 
away from home and see the world.
Bolstered by the magic bequeathed to her by 
the ancestors and the physical might passed 
down in her blood, she sought work that 
made use of her physical prowess and 
toughness. Naturally, this led her 
to dangerous places, and she 
spent many years working as a 
mercenary. Her spiritual 
guidance and healing 
abilities spur the troops to 
new vigor.
Since taking up with 
Savage Company, Hoaka 
has become a kind of stern 
motherly figure to her fellow 
mercenaries. Often seen as 
harsh, but she is a confidant 
counselor and shows her 
care through actions, not 
words.
Nobody takes care of 
their friends quite as well as 
Hoaka.

34
ripper  - blitzkrieg  barbarian
Born to a roving warband of orcs, Ripper learned the hardships of life at a very young 
age. Be it scraps of food to eat or scraps of cloth to wear, the younglings of his nomadic 
tribe had to fight for everything they had. What some would view as a brutish, unloving 
way to raise children, Ripper would later come to appreciate. The rough and tumble 
lifestyle infused him with a survival instinct and sheer force of will that few could ever 
hope to match. 

35
Ripper soon after learned the ways of combat, loving the thrill of tense, death-defying 
battles. As early as he could hold an axe, Ripper found ways to prove his worth and gain 
strength. Always pushing for more power, more strength, and more guns, Ripper quickly 
established himself as a mighty force to be respected.
While some would assume the massive orc simply wanted to be stronger than anyone 
else, the truth was that Ripper had a secret desire to become a warlord of legendary 
proportions. Merely winning the fights was never enough for him. Establishing his name 
among the tribes, spreading tales of his victories, this was all but a stepping stone to taking 
his throne of skulls at the top of the body pile.
Much like his unhinged approach to combat, Ripper’s view of things has changed over 
the years. His overwhelming strength leads him to begin assuming that he, above all, is 
destined for greatness and power beyond measure. Every damsel desired him, and every 
lord would bow at his feet, every shop would issue a discount at the mere mention of his 
self-proclaimed title of “The Taker of Heads. ” No members of the Company shared Ripper’s 
twisted view of the world but instead chose to let the orc live in his delusions. What 
nobody could ever take from Ripper are his self-esteem and confidence. The very same 
determination that leads him to believe he had absolute dominion over all those in his wake.
One creature that did fall sway to Ripper’s questionable leadership tactics was Snot, a 
small, almost sickly person of untenable presence. Somewhere along the way, Ripper had 
convinced the jittery goblin that he was the boss, or at least that’s what he believes. So long 
as the beefy orc could still fight, Snot is protected from harm. Snot often finds jobs and 
handles the mundane details of life for his boss; it’s a symbiotic relationship.
While mostly successful in his fights for glory, Ripper has been 
downright terrible with his money. Be it guns or ammunition, 
the brute simply cannot turn down the chance to obtain more 
firepower. The most expensive pieces of gear are his 
twin-linked machine guns, two sets 
of two, strapped to each arm with a 
central trigger on each handle. No one 
was sure if Ripper was smart enough 
to come up with the design on his own, 
or if Snot was far more crafty than he let on, but 
all knew the terrifying power Ripper could bring to bear 
if need be. It was also these machine guns that often 
brought Ripper’s bank account to ruin, as he had to fund 
four individual belt-fed weapon systems. Of which, he is 
unafraid to use at literally any given moment.

36
if gams  Could  kill
 
The air was heavy with the scent of copper and cordite. All was still but for the steady 
drip, drip, dripping of blood. The dripping came from the remains of a man rent asunder 
by the antlers of a large deer head mounted on the wall; what remained of him still 
dangling in the rack. The scene was carnage. Bodies everywhere. Bullet casings littered 
the floor. One poor sod had a street sign impaling him like a bug in some kid’s science 
show exhibit, from mouth to anus. Ripper lay dying in the middle of it all. His entire 
hulking form was covered in blood, and some intestines were visible beneath the edge of 
his shirt. Ow did Oi end up ‘ere? He pondered to himself, Oh, yeah, he remembered, Loik all 
great prollemz, it startz wit a dame.
Ripper sat behind his desk smoking a cigar. The overhead fan of stretched hide spun 
lazily, giving the light in the room a slow staccato. The room was silent but for the soft 
rush of air as the fan turned, an occasional squeak of gears from the diminutive goblin 
Snot pedaling a bicycle in the corner to power the fan, and the occasional shuffle of 
a chair or tinkle of glassware from the bar downstairs. They wouldn’t open for a few 
hours. Ripper was interrupted in his relaxation by the sound of footsteps outside his 
door. The figure paused outside the glazed window and turned in profile, he could 
make out a feminine jawline and a thick braid of hair in the shadow cast on the glass. 
Trouble he thought. 
Hoaka opened the door and strode through, her metallic sabatons clanking on the 
floorboards. She was clad from neck to toe in bulky, dull grey, metal armor plates; helmet 
tucked under one arm. “Ripper, we need you to get something for us. ” she said. 
WAAAAAAw, thought Ripper, the gams on that one. Oi don’ know whut she’s on about, but 
she obviously wants some. “Hugh, ” Ripper grunted in reply. 
“Just go into Oldtown and buy us a keg of beer. I’m hosting a celebration while the 
whole squad is here for downtime. Can you do that?” Hoaka asked. 
Of all da grog joints in all da woild, she had to walk inta moin. What kinda cocked up 
scheme was this dame getting me caught up in? But when all da chips fall, we all just animals 
in da end. “Uuuuuuuh huh, ” Ripper grunted again. 
Hoaka nodded slowly, presuming that for an affirmative and started backing out the 
door. “Ok, big fella, and whatever you do, try to keep a low profile. We don’t want to cause 
any trouble. ” Her face showed lines of deep concern as she walked back down the hall and 
away. One thing Ripper knew, he needed answers.
The orc grabbed up his quad machine guns and ammo pack, and after a moment’s 
consideration, donned a trench coat as well. The back was split open to allow it to fit over 
the ammo drum. Ther, Ripper thought, suttel, as he lowered his goggles onto his face.
Ripper traversed the streets over to the ‘oomie quarter, oblivious of the looks he 
garnered from passers-by. 
37
Two desperate thugs jumped out of an alley brandishing blades, “give us yer gold, ya 
mook, ” one of them shouted. 
Ripper needed answers, so the tavern was the place to go. 
The other mugger rushed Ripper and tried to stab him through the trench coat but his 
blade caught in the ammo belts crisscrossed underneath and broke. The two thugs stood 
dumbfounded looking between the broken knife and Ripper’s back as he continued 
walking, apparently lost in thought.
He stopped in front of the tavern door and waited. Snot looked up at Ripper, “Ya sure 
about this, boss, you can get kinda confused about stuff other than fightin’ and shootin” 
After a moment he kicked Snot forward. Snot looked confused for a second and then 
resigned. He walked into the tavern and climbed atop the bar. “Hey. HEY! Listen up, ” he 
shouted over the din, “may I present, The incomparable, invincible, unstoppable Ripper, 
taker of heads, duke of duking, and baron of bloodshed. ” He finished with a bow and 
flourish as Ripper stepped through the batwing doors, turned slightly sideways to 
accommodate his shoulders. The music from the small piano came to an abrupt halt and 
all activity ceased as the patrons took in the sight of this 7-foot tall Orc brute bedecked in 
ammo belts and a trench coat, twin-linked machine guns strapped to each arm. He strode 
forward, occupied benches and chairs sliding and tipping, and tables scraping across the 
ground as they were pushed aside by his forward progress. Several of the patrons seated 
on those benches or at those tables cried out in objection. Ripper got to the bar and 
rested his massive gun-strapped fists on it. 
The large man working the door stood up with his shotgun cradled in his arms, “Look, 
fella, we don’ want no trouble, ” the man said. 
Ripper turned to see the man with his shotgun seemingly pointed at Snot and his 
gun-toting left hand shot up on instinct to level on the man. “No! You!” Shouted Ripper, 
wanting the man to know who was being addressed. The disgruntled patrons all pulled 
their firearms at seeing Ripper threaten the doorman, so Ripper raised his other machine 
gun barrels and started brandishing them in the tense bar-goers faces. 
The bartender then drew his own shotgun from under the counter and pointed it 
at Ripper’s head stating, “Hey guys, let’s all calm down. ” Snot did not appreciate a gun 
being pointed at his boss’s skull, so he aimed his submachine gun squarely between 
the bartender’s eyes, a dribble of mucus running down his upper lip. The tension grew 
as everyone held their breath, fingers shaking on hairpin triggers, eyes darting about 
looking for a way out of this deathtrap; the air was thick with the smell of fear and sweat, 
and the rising dust of the shuffling feet and furniture in the sawdust ground cover…
Snot sneezed.
The carnage that followed was too fast to track accurately, but thanks to his quick 
instincts Snot was able to dive to the floor and roll under a table. He then crawled 
through the sawdust as the fire fight raged, men screamed and died, their bodies tossed 
through the air; Ripper fought like a rabid beast, gun barrels and bullets tearing through 
38
flesh as he crushed through the masses. Snot made it behind the bar as the bartender 
fell down dead, he crawled over the body and through the kitchen doorway as another 
tavern patron’s corpse came flying through the window. The fight raged on for some time, 
so Snot made himself a snack. After he was finished he walked back into the common 
room and climbed up on the blood-smeared bar to survey the area. There was the drip, 
drip, dripping body on the antlers. Over there was the impaled man with the very much 
out of place street sign. And there in the middle, lying perfectly still on his back, was his 
boss Ripper, covered in blood and guts. “Hey, boss, shouldn’t we get goin’?” Asked Snot. 
Ripper stood up and brushed the gore from himself and said, “Thoisty. ” 
Snot hopped down and rolled a keg from behind the bar, “here ya go, boss!” Ripper 
lifted the keg and held it above his head to take a drink from the spigot. 
“We go now, ” said Ripper, as he tucked the keg under his arm and walked out.
By the time they made it back to the grog joint where Ripper had his office, the place 
must’ve been open because there was quite a ruckus coming from inside. Ripper pushed 
through the door intending to pass through the crowd on his way up to his office but 
stopped short when he realized the crowd was his squad. And there was Hoaka, all done 
up in her best outfit, obviously trying to tantalize him. Hoaka clanked over to him with a 
surprised look on her face, “you made it, and you got the beer!” 
Ripper stared at her slack-jawed, still covered in now-drying gore. Oi jus’ can’t read 
dames.
“Wasn’t too much trouble I hope. ” Hoaka looked at him incredulously. 
Snot walked past the pair polishing a shotgun that he didn’t have earlier in the day, 
“nothin’ we can’t handle, miss. ” 
39
seika  - zen  gunman  monk
Born in the far east of the world, in a warrior caste among a vast hobgoblin army, Seika was 
no stranger to conflict. She saw countless battles, many with significant losses on both sides. 
The young Hobgoblin felt immortal, untouchable... until the day she was proven wrong.
While the scars she carries allude to something terrible having taken place, Seika does not 
reveal a single shred of the detail. Many have tried asking, offering brews in exchange for her 
stories, but the woman has always maintained her silence. She felt that no one should know 
the pain and suffering that she has known. It was her burden to bear alone.
In the wake of the turning point of her life, Seika awoke to a new purpose. One that drove 
her to seek the answers of the universe. Whatever happened to her, she found it necessary 
to delve into chapels and temples, eventually settling on a small group of monks that taught 
her to think less of herself, and more of the balance of life. Over 
time, Seika sought to master the words of her fellow monks, 
finding a way to combine her past experience 
with her future. And thus, the way of the gun 
became Seika’s path to enlightenment.
Through her travels, Seika met many good 
people, and killed many more who weren’t; 
she studied art and defended the helpless. 
She eventually found herself on speaking 
terms with a Sergeant Green, who offered her 
a job with Savage Company. While initially 
hesitant, Seika accepted the offer. She assumed 
that she would have the best chances of 
traveling the world and seeking the balance, 
by living among the company of those who also 
lived and died by the gun. Seika grew to secretly 
adore her comrades and their hijinks. Despite 
this, she knew that mercenary work was only 
a means to an end. Though she thrived, 
the Hobgoblin felt that this was simply 
another step along the path to perceiving 
the true nature of the universe. 
But in the meantime, Seika had never 
felt quite as alive as she did when fighting 
alongside her comrades. Even in the tensest 
of situations, the absolute hardest moments 
to overcome, even on the very brink of death 
itself. Seika found life in the balance.

40
serah  - steel  saint  paladin
Having seen many dark days in her childhood, Serah sought out religion, eventually 
taking up arms to defend the defenseless. She takes the protection of the innocent 
very seriously. Since a young age, she has trained and strove to be strong enough to 
prevent what happened to her from happening to anyone else. She loves children but is 
sometimes unsure around them, so she often winds up acting like a friendly aunt. 
Serah built a reputation as an expert dispatcher of evil creatures and people, and this 
reputation is how she came to find herself recruited by Savage Company. Though her 
unique talents are in high demand, she only accepts jobs that match her ethics. There is 
a never-ending supply of evil that needs smiting. The funds from these jobs she uses to 
further her cause:  to right injustice, rescue children, and build homes for orphans. 
She serves as a devout paladin and always fights for what is right. Her inner strength and 
diligence have given her might. Might that she uses to dispatch justice against evildoers 
with a ferocity that you would not expect if you met her among friends. While not a 
bubbly personality, Serah is intelligent enough to come up with surprisingly good jokes 
on occasion, though she speaks them only when tactful. No foe wants to be smitten by 
her righteous fury or face judgment at the end of her terrible hand-cannons.

41
skin  - infantryman
Joe Green has never met his parents. His first name was given to him by a well-meaning 
human couple who adopted him as a baby. While they originally wanted another pair of 
hands around the farm, they grew to love him in their simple way. Growing up as the only 
half-orc in a human village was not exactly easy. The frequent fights and shunning from 
the townsfolk soured relations early on, but Joe always managed to make it by the skin of 
his teeth. He volunteered for military service once he could pass for an adult; the promise 
of guaranteed purpose, pay, and a place to belong appealed to him. 
He soon discovered that no matter how dedicated you are, being 
cannon fodder gets old even for a person with the knack for 
pulling their chestnuts out of the fire and the grit to carry on.
Once he 
had gained the 
skills of an infantryman, 
Joe “Skin” Green didn’t have many other 
options, so he tried to move up the ranks, but 
institutional bias blocked him from climbing any 
higher than Sergeant. So Sgt Skin became a staple of 
military conflicts throughout the region. Sometimes training 
up a team only for their careers to overmatch his own, and 
sometimes being the only one unlucky enough to be still 
alive when his whole squad died as “heroes. ”
But everything changed for Skin when he found 
Savage Company. A band of like-minded fighters 
that valued his hard-won skills and didn’t begrudge 
him his heritage. Skin now makes a name for himself 
as someone unrivaled in his professionalism and 
dedication to completing the mission. With private 
sector pay and the respect of his leadership, he can 
be the ball-busting NCO with a heart of gold that 
he was always meant to be. 

42
trenChes
It’s raining again. I slide my helmet forward to make a dry space in front of my face 
to light my last stub of a cigar. At least the rain will batter down the smells of blood, 
shit, and death. After it’s lit I put my helmet back and use my curled hand to block 
the rain as I puff its last; a little trick I picked up. I was already soaked through and 
smelled from days of not washing and weeks of not bathing, but my socks were dry. 
I took meticulous care in waxing and sealing my boots and kept any good socks I 
could; I even mended the holes when I had downtime and kept them all tightly rolled 
at the bottom of my ruck in an oil-cloth with a spare sock of rice; another little trick I 
picked up. Greenhorns never understood the thing about socks but let me tell you, 
socks = morale. I tried to teach those I was assigned, but I suppose they’re all dead 
now. That last charge didn’t leave many standing in this trench. I check my flint again. 
Though it’s pitch dark I can see some movement down the line. They’re filling the 
ranks, shifting some men this way to try this charge again. We get to the ladders and 
wait for the whistle.
The whistle blows and we’re over the side, into no man’s land. I don’t sprint right 
off, it’s those that pull ahead get targeted by the long rifles. I make sure not to drag 
ass either; if the brass notice you sandbagging you get some shit detail, and in these 
parts shit details often get dead. I stick to the middle of the pack. We’re into the 
trench and a kid comes at me with a knife, I stave his face in with my rifle-butt, all 
the fight puffs out of him through a froth of blood and teeth. I don’t go looking for 
victims, I wait for them to make themselves known. All of a sudden a fat Dwarf with 
a trench broom pops around a corner, I raise and fire my carbine past a comrade’s 
shoulder without even thinking. It works this time. My hands do their reloading thing 
while I keep my head on a swivel looking for trouble. The carbine is both deadly and 
unimpressive and both in the right amounts for my taste; I wouldn’t trade more of 
one for less of the other. Impressive weapons get you dead.
After we’re back in our trench some dough-faced private tries to thank me or 
something for the bit with the dwarf. I show him a bit of fang and he pales and shuts 
up. Better for us both if he doesn’t get too attached; next charge it might be me that 
doesn’t make it back. I open my last tin of beans and look both ways before adding 
the spice I hide in my pocket. Spice is the spice of life. It may burn my backside at the 
latrine trench in the morning, but it will warm my belly tonight.
I doze off standing right before the sun comes up. It’s wet and cold even though the 
rain has stopped. I wake up a little later, something is bugging me. The doughface 
next to me looks like he’s about to shout when a knife hilt appears sticking out of his 
eye socket. I fall on my back as another knife buries itself in the wall where my head 
used to be. I look up and see a slight figure covered in mud; the sumbitch must’ve 
crawled half the night to get here. He tries to close the distance to use his stilettos so 
I blast him in the knee; now we’re both down. We rise warily and eye one another. He 
tries a feint but I don’t take the bait and manage to dodge his thrust. I quickly draw 
my holdout pistol one-handed and pull the trigger. FZZzzzt. Crap! I cleverly let him 
stab me all the way through my shoulder like an idiot. Damn, that smarts. I wipe the 
43
Warboi  - dri Ver  CaValier
Legend tells there would one day come a driver. A driver not born of mortal parents, but 
springing forth from the grinding gears and oily pistons of a rumbling engine. A driver 
whose vehicle was not assembled in a workshop, but was summoned from the firmament 
using a pool of spilled motor oil as a portal. Warboi has heard all these stories, and has 
even had a few of them assigned to him by rumor, but pays them no mind. His only 
concerns are his vehicle and his friends, in that order.
flint clean with my thumb and try it again. BAM, a .44 caliber ball turns his head into 
an artistic new shape. Looking around I see he’s been busy, I might be the only one 
left in this section. I move steadily to the rear, we might lose this length of the trench 
but I need to report this and I’ll be damned if I’m going to die trying to hold it by 
myself. Being a hero is for suckers.

44
If Warboi had a life of humble beginnings before he started rolling and rumbling, it is 
of little consequence or importance. He has spent much of his adult life roving with one 
warband or another, sometimes in large convoys, sometimes driving along with foot 
patrols, or even as a member of a small party, where his buggy can often convey the 
entire party. He is a master of machines, an unparalleled driver, and an artful tinkerer. 
Though his odd personality and thick accent can make him hard to get along with, his 
unrivaled enthusiasm is very contagious. In combat he stays very mobile, using his vehicle 
as a weapon, while also trying to keep it safe. He takes direct targeting of his buggy very 
personally and doesn’t hesitate to retaliate, though when the danger gets too high, he 
does know when to book a hasty retreat.
Warboi spends his downtime repairing, upgrading, and 
modifying his vehicle, and sometimes also his personal 
equipment. Though not much of a partier, he can 
sometimes be tempted away from the garage to 
mingle with his fellow squad members, who 
can occasionally catch a smell on his breath 
that might hint he’s been tasting the fluids 
that make his vehicle function. Any inquiries 
to that effect are usually met with a stain-
toothed grin.

45
the raCes detailed  in this Chapter  haVe redefined  the term 
“saVage” to refer  to their  feroCity in battle , their  tribal  sense 
of honor , and their  neW-found  opportunities  in merCenary  Combat . 
no longer  unedu Cated and barbari C, they noW ply their  skills  
and base toughness  in Working  for Coin; as sarge says, “you Can 
pillage  a Village  onCe, but you Can Charge  them for defense  as 
long as they’re aliVe!”
these raCes are largely  reimagined  Versions  of familiar  
monstrous  raCes, but Without  the assumptions  of slaVery, 
eVil, or entirely  anti-soCial traits . intelligent  beings  make 
those  deCisions  on an indiVidual  basis  and like any pC raCe, 
eaCh alignment  should  be possible . the raCes detailed  in this 
seCtion are referred  to as the “saVage raCes,” but by saVage, 
We do not mean beastial  or stupid , We mean that they are fierCe 
When proVoked, and their  paramilitary  units  are feared  on the 
battlefield  due to their  effiCaCy and intimidation . eVen though  
they haVe no Changes  in this book, goblins  are an integral  part of 
soCiety and are also Considered  a “saVage raCe.”
raCes
46
oVer Vie W
The baade race is a proud nomadic 
people with no homeland, often maligned 
by the more “enlightened races” for their 
frightening appearance, they are noble 
traders and craftsmen who journey the 
world in search of new experiences, 
opportunities, and innovation. Their 
traditional songs and dances tell an oral 
history of a world far different from our 
own, with two suns, erupting volcanoes, 
frequent earthquakes, and the constant 
threat of mighty predators. Baadans are 
a strong and durable race, often fearless 
in the face of death, especially when it 
comes to defending their close familial 
units. They age slower than humans, but 
not nearly as long-lived as the elves, and 
while the women go through a similar life 
cycle of blossoming into adulthood and 
childbearing years like humans do, the 
men instead slowly grow larger over their 
entire lives, eventually reaching titanic 
proportions and living a mostly sedentary 
life in their old age. 
baade  (16 rp)

47
physi Cal  des Cription
Baadans are large, red-hued humanoids. 
Males average over seven feet tall and 
400 pounds, with females being slightly 
smaller at over six feet and 250 pounds. 
As with humans, sizes vary greatly with 
the smallest of females ranging from just 
over five feet tall and 200 pounds while the 
largest males topping out around eight 
feet tall and 450 pounds. The baadan build 
while being somewhat similar to humans 
is generally stockier with aggressive 
musculature. Due to the unique biology of 
the baadans, they uniformly have extreme 
muscle tone and do not retain body fat. 
Their bones and muscles are very dense 
and much heavier than they appear. The 
black fingernails are also thick and deeply 
set and are often sharpened and used as 
tools, especially in larger males where fine 
manipulation of small objects would prove 
difficult with extremely large fingers. Males 
from a young age grow a pair of large black 
horns on their heads which are sometimes 
used defensively or for fighting, in ancient 
times these would be used to protect 
the familial herd from predators. In some 
bloodlines the females also grow horns, 
and others are entirely hornless. These 
variations are not seen as unusual, just rare.  
The skin color while generally being 
described as red or rust-colored, in 
fact, varies based on racial, genetic, 
geographical, ethnic and familial traits. 
Coloration ranges from a pale light pink 
to a deep crimson or magenta. Small, 
light-skinned baadans can occasionally 
pass for humans, although the correct 
combination of traits necessary for this to 
occur is rare. Occasionally spots, splotches 
or stripes occur, although this has 
become rare as bloodlines have become 
interwoven in recent millennia.  Hair 
occurs only on the top, back, and sides of 
the head; facial and body hair is seen as 
atavistic and a sign of poor breeding. Hair 
colors are similar to human standards, 
ranging from white or blonde, to brown 
and black.  Eye coloration is also similar 
to human standard with the exception of 
frequently occurring yellow or gold irises. 
Silver and grey eyes are also common. 
Another feature unique to baade biology 
is that the men do not undergo puberty 
or growth spurts, they gradually become 
adults and never cease growing as long 
as they live. While extremely rare, very old 
baadan patriarchs have been recorded 
nearing sixteen feet tall and weighing 
several thousand pounds. 
Baadans often mark themselves with 
ritualistic scarring and familial tattoos, 
tattoos being more popular among 
females as the scarring is often a result 
of a male coming of age ritual. A similar 
celebration is held for females entering 
society as an adult with the unveiling of her 
tattoo denoting her bloodline. While such 
ceremonies are not uncommon, they are 
not observed across the race as a whole.
soCiety
Baadans are diverse and well-cultured 
people. If you could ascribe values to 
the race as a whole they would have 
to be Independence and Honor. The 
baadan psyche is built around the 
concepts of independence and value. Not 
independence as in isolation, but rather 
one of achievement and earning. Nothing 
is more uniformly seen as taboo in baadan 
society than the taking of something not 
earned, or the asking of something or 
someone without return. Baadans generally 
believe in the importance of personal 
freedoms and there is a strong “Noble 
Warrior” aspect of the culture. Nearly all 
adult baadans carry weapons with them at 
48
all times and are well versed in their use. It 
is seen as taboo to be unarmed because it 
implies that an unarmed person burdens 
those around him to defend his life if it 
becomes necessary.
The majority of baadans belong to 
extended family groups, often as traveling 
craftsmen and merchants. The family 
structure appears patriarchal, with the 
elder male leading and looking out for 
his family and their business. However 
within the family, it is often his wife, the 
elder female who runs things and is the 
final arbiter of disputes and duties. This is 
a tradition that dates back to the earliest 
days of the baade people, the men seeking 
food and defending the tribe with their 
strength and natural weapons while the 
women cared for the tribe and planned 
ahead using their wits. 
In all parts of baadan society, dueling is 
looked upon as an acceptable means of 
dispute resolution. Most disagreements 
are resolved quickly and peacefully as few 
matters are believed serious enough to 
risk one’s own life over. When duels are 
encountered with outsiders of other races, 
sometimes the challenged opponent 
will flee rather than face the somewhat 
legendary consequences of entering a duel 
with a baadan. In these circumstances, 
the challenger will record the opponent’s 
information as well as a report of the 
circumstances into their family ledger, 
sharing this info with any other baadan 
caravans they come across, the result of 
which usually ends in the blacklisting of 
the individual or in extreme circumstances, 
their entire company or family. Once 
someone has been blacklisted, it is rare 
that any baadan will do business with 
them in the future.
relations
Baadans welcome trade and interaction 
with all races, although they are often 
distrusted upon first contact with many 
races due to their “demonic” appearance. 
They have a great affinity for the 
toughness, ingenuity, and craftsmanship 
of dwarves, the creativity and ambition 
of humans, and the fighting spirit of orcs. 
Their crafting skills are renowned for 
adapting and combining the innovations 
of different races and transforming them 
into something new and unique.
alignment  and  religion
Baadans are characterized by their 
respect for free will and a sense of personal 
honor. Often pragmatic in their dealings, 
fair trade, and placing the needs of their 
families above all else, most baade are 
neutral good and practice a light form of 
ancestor worship by paying respect and 
telling stories of the elders that came 
before them. 
adVenturers
While not common, some individuals 
leave the structure of their family and strike 
out on their own seeking independence, 
adventure, or just new opportunities. Often 
these lone baade will be on the lookout for 
investments or trade deals that they can 
bring back to their clan and both enrich 
their family and raise their own status. 
In the event that a lone baade is without 
familial or business connections due to 
calamity or misfortune, they tend to seek 
out a kind of surrogate family in the form 
of an adventuring party, gang, or military 
unit. Due to their intrinsic physical abilities, 
they tend towards martial classes, but 
their curious and inventive nature can be 
beneficial in any role.
49
Male  N aMes
Ahoeitu, Akamu, Akeakamai, Aputi, 
Hehu, Laniakea, Manaia, Manuia, Tamati.
FeMale  N aMes
Asoese, Huali, Iosefina, Kalama, Lanuola, 
Lailago, Lulu, Oliana, Tiare, Tuiara.
standard  raCial  traits
- Ability Score Modifiers: Specialized +2 
Str, +2 Con, –2 Cha (1 RP)
- Advanced Strength: Baadans gain an 
additional +2 Str (4 RP)
- Type: Humanoid (Baadan)
- Size: Medium 
- Base Speed: Baade have a base speed of 
30 feet.
- Languages: Baadans begin play 
speaking Common and Baadan. Baadans 
with high Intelligence scores can choose 
from the following: Dwarven, Gnome, 
Orcish, Goblin, Undercommon, Jargon, 
and Handsign 
- Fearless: +2 racial bonus against fear 
effects (1 RP)
- Skill Bonus: Baadans gain +1 to both 
Survival and Diplomacy skills (2 RP)
- Skill Training: Baadans always treat 
Survival and Diplomacy as in-class (1 RP)
- Darkvision: Baade can see in darkness 
up to 60 feet. (2 RP)
- Low-light: Baade can see twice as far as 
a race with normal vision in conditions 
of dim light. (1 RP)
- Scent: Baade gain the scent ability. (4 RP) 
alternate  raCial  traits
The following alternate racial traits may 
be selected in place of one or more of the 
standard racial traits above. 
- Gore: Some baade gain the ability to use 
a gore attack. This gore attack does 1d6 
points of damage, plus your Strength 
modifier. You’re considered proficient in 
this attack and can apply feats or effects 
appropriate to natural attacks to it. If 
used as part of a full attack action, the 
gore is considered a secondary attack 
and is made at your full base attack 
bonus –5, and adds half your Strength 
modifier to damage. This racial trait 
replaces fearless.
- Pass for Human: Rarely, some baadans 
are small, dull, and hornless and do not 
need disguise checks to appear human. 
This racial trait replaces fearless.
- Oversized Limbs: Large muscled arms 
reduce the penalty for using oversized 
table : random  starting  ages
Adulthood Intuitive Self-taught Trained
40 years +3d6 years  
(43 – 58 years)
+5d6 years  
(45 – 70 years)
+7d6 years  
(47 – 82 years)
table : random  height  and  Weight
Gender Base Height Height Modifier Base Weight Weight 
Modifier
Male 6 ft. +2d12 in.
(6 ft. 2 in. – 8 ft.) 350 lbs. +(2d10x5 lbs.)
(350 – 450 lbs.)
Female 5 ft. 1 in. +2d12 in.
(5 ft. 3 in. – 7 ft. 1 in.) 200 lbs. +(2d10x5 lbs.)
(200 – 300 lbs.)
50
weapons by –2, minimum 0. This racial 
trait replaces scent. 
- Canny: Many are adept at dealing with 
people but are sometimes brash. These 
baade gain a +2 racial bonus to Cha but 
suffer a –2 racial penalty to Will. 
- Silvertongued: Crafty baade learn 
subterfuge instead of taking to tradition. 
They lose the skill training and skill bonus 
in Diplomacy, but gain skill training and 
skill bonus in Bluff in its place. 
faVored  Class  options
The following favored class options are 
available to all characters of this race who 
have the listed favored class, and unless 
otherwise stated, the bonus applies each 
time you select the favored class reward.
Alchemist Add +1 foot to the splash 
radius of alchemist bombs. This 
option has no effect unless the 
alchemist has selected it 5 times (or 
another increment of 5).
Arcanist Add +1/6 to the number of 
points the arcanist gains in her arcane 
reservoir each day.
Barbarian Add +1/2 round per level to 
the duration of Rage.
Bard Reduce the penalty for not being 
proficient with one weapon by 1. 
When the nonproficiency penalty for 
a weapon becomes 0 because of this 
ability, the bard is treated as having 
the appropriate Martial or Exotic 
Weapon Proficiency feat for that 
weapon.
Cavalier Add +1 foot to the radius of 
Tactician class features. This option 
has no effect unless the cavalier 
has selected it 5 times (or another 
increment of 5).
Cleric Add +1 foot to the radius of 
Channel Energy. This option has no 
effect unless the Cleric has selected it 
5 times (or another increment of 5).
Druid Add +1/2 to the damage dealt 
by the druid’s animal companion’s 
natural attacks.
Fighter Add +1/2 bonus to craft(arms/
armor) checks.
Infantryman Add +1/4 point to 
damage bonus from firing advance 
class feature.
Monk Add +1/4 point to the monk‘s ki 
pool.
Paladin Add +1 foot to the radius of 
Aura of Courage. This option has no 
effect unless the paladin has selected 
it 5 times (or another increment of 5).
Ranger Add +1/4 to the armor bonus 
of the ranger or the ranger’s animal 
companion when they are wearing 
armor.
Rogue Gain +1/6 of a new rogue talent.
Sorcerer Add +1/3 to the sorcerer’s 
caster level when casting Conjuration 
spells except those of the 
Summoning subschool.
Witch Add +5 feet to the range of one 
hex with a range other than “touch. ”
Wizard Select one item creation feat 
known by the wizard. Whenever 
crafting an item using that feat, the 
amount of progress made in an 
8-hour period increases by 200 gp (50 
gp if crafting while adventuring). This 
does not reduce the cost of the item; 
it just increases the rate at which the 
item is crafted.
51
oVer Vie W
While they share some common 
characteristics, every kemano is different. 
Their varied racial heritages and 
widespread diaspora means there are 
few things that can be said of kemano as 
a whole. Despite that, these few things 
remain generally true: kemano are 
secretive, blend well with humans, and 
have some slight animal traits.
physi Cal  des Cription
Kemano vary greatly in appearance, even 
within a given heritage. All possess the 
following characteristics: some physical 
manifestation of non-human heritage 
(ears, tails, hooves, teeth), a mind that 
is slightly alien to anyone seeking to 
influence them, and the ability to suppress 
or hide these physical traits and appear 
human. All kemano can interbreed with 
humanoid races but the offspring have a 
50/50 chance of being entirely one parent’s 
race or the other, with any Kemano 
children being of the same heritage as that 
parent; and all kemano give live-birth.
soCiety
Kemano tend to intermingle with other 
races and are well suited to blending 
undiscovered with humans in a society. 
When forming their own communities 
they sometimes attract other races with 
animalistic traits and tend to be more open 
with their own bestial sides around these 
kindred spirits.
kemano  (8-11 rp)

52
 - Size: Medium
 - Base Speed: Kemano have a base speed 
of 30 feet.
 - Languages: Common.
 - Stubborn Mind: Members of this race 
gain a +2 racial bonus on Will saving 
throws to resist spells and spell-like 
abilities of the enchantment (charm), 
enchantment (compulsion), and 
divination (mind-affecting) subschools. 
In addition, if a member of this race 
fails such a save, it receives another 
save 1 round later to prematurely end 
the effect (assuming the spell or spell-
like ability has a duration greater than 
1 round). This second save is made at 
the same DC as the first. If the member 
of the race has a similar ability from 
another source (such as a rogue’s 
slippery mind class feature), it can only 
use one of these abilities per round, but 
can try the other on the second round 
if the first reroll ability fails. (2 RP)
 - Pass for Human: You receive a +10 
bonus on Disguise checks to disguise 
yourself as a human, and do not receive 
the penalty for disguising yourself as a 
member of another race when you do 
so. In areas largely populated or settled 
by humans, you can take 10 on your 
Disguise check, meaning most people 
tend to assume you are human unless 
given a reason to think otherwise. (2 RP)
heritage  raCial  traits
Each kemano selects one heritage 
and gains those traits in addition to the 
standard traits that all kemano share.
boVine
 - Ability Score Modifiers: +2 Str, –2 Int, 
+2 Wis
 - Natural Attack (Gore): Bovine kemano 
gain a natural gore attack. The damage is 
based on the creature’s size (1d6). (1RP)
relations
Due to their rarity, ability to hide, and 
wide dispersal most races don’t know that 
the kemano exist, much less that they walk 
among them. Any evidence to the contrary 
is usually written off as a skinwalker or 
kitsune. Some members of kemano may 
even disseminate information that helps 
other races to write-off evidence of their 
existence as a myth.
alignment  and  religion
Kemano tend to adopt the customs 
and attitudes of whatever land they find 
themselves in, but when forming their own 
communities they usually favor deities of 
nature and secrecy and neutral alignments.
adVenturers
Due to their varied nature and 
heritages, a kemano adventurer could 
find themselves filling any role within an 
adventuring party, and while naturally 
secretive about their animal traits, they will 
sometimes become comfortable enough 
with the group to let their mask slip.
Male  N aMes
Same as human.
FeMale  N aMes
Same as human.
standard  raCial  traits
 - Ability Score Modifiers: Standard +2 
in one physical ability score, + 2 in one 
mental ability score, and –2 in another 
mental ability score; see Table: Heritage 
Racial Traits.
 - Type: Humanoid (subtype is that of 
selected heritage)
53
 - Powerful Charge: Whenever a bovine 
kemano charges, it deals twice the 
number of damage dice with its gore 
natural attack plus 1-1/2 times its 
Strength bonus.
 - Static Bonus Feat: Bovine kemano gain 
alertness as a bonus feat. (2RP)
Canine
 - Ability Score Modifiers: +2 Con, –2 Int, 
+2 Wis 
 - Bite:  Canine kemano gain a natural bite 
attack, dealing damage equivalent to 
that of a creature two size categories 
lower than normal for their size 
(1d3). The bite is a primary attack, or 
a secondary attack if the creature is 
wielding manufactured weapons. (1RP)
 - Static Bonus Feat: Canine kemano gain 
Endurance as a bonus feat. (2RP)
 - Scent: Canine kemano gain the scent 
ability. (4RP)
dromedary
 - Ability Score Modifiers: +2 Con, +2 Wis, 
–2 Cha 
 - Relentless: Dromedary kemano gain 
a +2 bonus on combat maneuver 
checks made to bull rush or overrun 
an opponent. This bonus only applies 
while both the dromedary kemano 
and its opponent are standing on the 
ground. (1RP)
 - Static Bonus Feat: Dromedary kemano 
gain Endurance as a bonus feat. (2RP)
 - Spell-Like Ability: Dromedary kemano 
can use Ant Haul as an at-will spell-like 
ability. The caster level of the spell is 
equal to the user’s character level. (2RP)
equine
 - Ability Score Modifiers: +2 Con, –2 Int, 
+2 Wis 
 - Fast: Equine kemano gain a +10 foot 
bonus to their base speed. (1RP)
 - Static Bonus Feat: Equine kemano gain 
Run as a bonus feat. (2RP)
 - Static Bonus Feat: Equine kemano gain 
Alertness as a bonus feat. (2RP)
feline
 - Ability Score Modifiers: +2 Dex, +2 Int, 
–2 Wis
 - Claws: Feline kemano receive two claw 
attacks. These are primary natural 
attacks. The damage is based on the 
creature’s size (1d4). (2RP)
 - Static Bonus Feat: Feline kemano gain 
Acrobatic as a bonus feat. (2RP) 
 - Darkvision: Feline kemano can see in 
the dark up to 60 feet. (2RP)
table : heritage  raCial  traits
Heritage Ability Score Modifiers Heritage Racial Traits RP
Bovine +2 Str, –2 Int, +2 Wis Gore, Powerful Charge, Alertness 9
Canine +2 Con, –2 Int, +2 Wis Bite, Endurance, Scent 11
Dromedary +2 Con, +2 Wis, –2 Cha Relentless, Endurance, Ant Haul 9
Equine +2 Con, –2 Int, +2 Wis Fast, Run, Alertness 9
Feline +2 Dex, +2 Int, –2 Wis Claws, Acrobatic, Darkvision 10
Lagomorph +2 Dex, –2 Wis, +2 Cha Fast, Quick Reactions, Low-light 
vision 8
Primate +2 Str, –2 Wis, +2 Cha Slam, Climb, Swarming 9
Ursine +2 Con, +2 Wis, –2 Cha Bite, Claws, Scent 11
54
lagomorph
 - Ability Score Modifiers: +2 Dex, –2 Wis, 
+2 Cha
 - Fast: Lagomorph kemano gain a +10 
foot bonus to their base speed. (1RP)
 - Quick Reactions: Lagomorph kemano 
receive Improved Initiative as a bonus 
feat. (2RP)
 - Lowlight vision: Lagomorph kemano 
can see twice as far as a race with normal 
vision in conditions of dim light. (1RP)
primate
 - Ability Score Modifiers: +2 Str, –2 Wis, 
+2 Cha 
 - Natural Attack (Slam): Primate kemano 
gain a natural Slam attack. The damage 
is based on the creature’s size (1d4). 
(1RP)
 - Climb: Primate kemano have a climb 
speed of 20 feet, and gain the +8 racial 
bonus on Climb checks that a climb 
speed normally grants. (2RP)
 - Swarming: Primate kemano are used to 
living and fighting communally with 
other members of their race. Up to two 
primate kemano can share the same 
square at the same time. If two primate 
kemano that are occupying the same 
square attack the same foe, they are 
considered to be flanking that foe as 
if they were in two opposite squares. 
(2RP)
ursine
 - Ability Score Modifiers: +2 Con, +2 Wis, 
–2 Cha 
 - Bite:  Ursine kemano gain a natural bite 
attack, dealing damage equivalent to 
that of a creature two size categories 
lower than normal for their size 
(1d3). The bite is a primary attack, or 
a secondary attack if the creature is 
wielding manufactured weapons. (1RP)
 - Claws: Ursine kemano receive two claw 
attacks. These are primary natural 
attacks. The damage is based on the 
creature’s size (1d4). (2RP)
 - Scent: Ursine kemano gain the scent 
ability. (4RP)
alternate  raCial  traits
The following alternate racial traits may 
be selected in place of one or more of the 
standard racial traits above. 
 - Fury Born: Fierce warriors, these 
kemano’s natural attacks deal damage 
as if the creature’s size had increased by 
one category. This racial trait replaces 
pass for human.
 - Nature’s hunter: Some kemano live 
in seclusion and remember the old 
times when their kind was hunted and 
exterminated. Choose two subtypes of 
humanoids or outsiders or one creature 
type other than humanoid or outsider. 
These kemano gain a +1 racial bonus 
on attack rolls against creatures of 
these subtypes or this type. This racial 
trait replaces pass for human.
faVored  Class  options
The kemano due to their habits of living 
in and among humans use the same 
favored class bonuses available to humans.
55
orphan trail
The sun rose over the rolling grass of the wide, flat prairie. Unseen birds chirped 
out their songs in the still air. A creaking sound from an old wooden wagon wheel 
announced its presence as it rolled by a solitary blooming daisy that was growing right 
on the edge of the wheel-rut that had been carved into the well worn trail.
Serah sat in the driver’s seat on the front of a covered wagon telling stories to a group 
of young orphans seated behind her. The blonde curls of her hair lay in loose tresses 
around the pointed furry ears on top of her head and cascaded down the back of her 
green blouse, the color reflecting the green and gold tones of her nearly human eyes. 
She spoke in affected confident tones, and the children seemed to be calmed by her 
voice and presence. The story was happy and calming, though obviously fabricated. 
True stories that she knew were usually not calming to children. However, most of the 
kids were transfixed by her words or the lazy arcs her long tail was drawing through the 
air. As a kemano, it was hard for her at first to reveal her true nature as being something 
other than human. Her friends in the company didn’t even really notice, being non 
human was the norm for them. She was glad she had been honest however, not hiding 
the truth made it easier for her to relate to the children as well. Of course being children 
they were fascinated with her feline ears and tail, and were always trying to pet them, 
but Serah didn’t mind that so much either.
Despite her apparent occupation, Serah remained ever-vigilant, her golden ears 
twitching occasionally at some slight sound. These children were driven out of their 
orphanage by the same war that had orphaned them in the first place, so she did 
everything she could to make them feel safe. Her armor was securely stowed in a chest 
behind the bench and she wore comfortable travelling clothes, though other members 
of her team maintained their mercenary appearance. She had hired them herself with 
earnings from her cut of other jobs. Savage Company had many run-ins with evil, both 
natural and otherwise, and there was always a demand for her particular skill set. She 
took the jobs she felt inclined to and turned down the ones that didn’t appeal to her or 
her deity. 
The oxen let out an occasional low bellow in protest as they started up another hill. 
The hills were getting steeper and closer together as the wagons neared the mountains; 
trees were becoming more common as well. If there was one place Serah did not want 
trouble on this journey, it was the pass. The only good place to get a wagon through 
these mountains and down to the plains on the other side was a narrow saddle between 
two thickly wooded peaks, and they would arrive there tomorrow.
Serah could hear Aleeshrak in the last wagon, teaching the children a marching 
song that seemed to have a thousand verses. It was fully possible the little kobold had 
written it herself. Doc was telling jokes and handing out candy. Serah wasn’t sure how 
56
much of the stuff he had packed, but it must have been a sackful as he showed no signs 
of slowing down.
That night, they circled the wagons and made camp, Doc using the back of wagon 
number two as a makeshift kitchen. They made food around a cheery fire and shared 
more stories and songs before bed. While the children slept, Serah and her three 
companions kept watch with the aid of a spell that let them rest while staying alert, but 
the night stayed quiet. The next morning, Doc made heaps of flapjacks for everyone 
and they set off again. 
Toward noon, the trail was in a dense strand of trees near the high-point of the pass 
when a man stepped out onto the road. He was tall and unkempt with a sword on his 
back and a gun on his hip. He was also flanked by two more tough individuals. As he 
started speaking, some sounds of movement in the trees alerted Serah to the presence 
of more brigands to either side. “Keep yer hands where I can see ‘em, Miss, don’t start 
any trouble and we can keep this civil. ” 
Serah kept her hands up but spoke over her shoulder, “Children, get down. ” The kids 
all laid down in the wagon like they had practiced, and passed the word down the line. 
Serah turned back to the bandit leader, “We are transporting refugees, Sir. We carry no 
valuables. ” 
“We’ll be the judge of tha-” he started to reply, but cut off abruptly as he saw Doc and 
the emblem he wore come into view down the line of wagons. The leader’s eyes went 
wide and his hands started to shake. Doc was a bit surprised himself, but his reaction 
was slightly different. Before anything else could happen, a firebomb went sailing 
through the air and engulfed the leader in an inferno. The front oxen reared up and the 
leader’s two companions fell down burning, swallowed whole by the flames.
Diplomacy concluded, Serah muttered a terse yet melodic incantation and her armor 
sprang piecemeal from the trunk and instantly assembled itself on her person. Drawing 
the twin big iron revolvers now astride her hips, she sprang from the wagon seat and 
rushed into the woods. The hidden men began firing blindly through the trees, driven 
into panic by the sound of their leader’s dying screams. The first she came upon was 
woefully unaware of her approach in her gleaming mithral savage plate armor. In a turn 
from matriarch to ferocious warrior, Serah’s claws extended unconsciously, piercing her 
begloved fingertips as she grabbed the man’s skull and drove it straight into the closest 
tree. Blood splattered out from the thug’s broken facial structure. She followed up by 
clubbing him to the side of his head with a gun-butt, and then kicked him in the ribs as 
he fell. The next fellow saw her and attempted to scream. Before he could increase his 
volume, BOOM! A bullet through the throat left his head attached to his spurting neck 
by a shred of skin and sinew on one side. As he slowly fell, his companions encircled 
Serah. Before they could rush, the kemano paladin took a deep, calming breath, and 
57
shouted the warcry of her deity, fully prepared to set to work. The first three to rush 
were easily dispatched in turns, side-stepping the one who came in alone with a sword 
and BOOM! blasting him through the torso. His gore and body kept moving, crashing 
into his companions advancing from the other side. She let them try to disentangle 
themselves while she decimated the circle. A large bearded man closed the gap, but 
Serah was faster. BOOM! She obliterated his knee, taking his leg off. The paladin caught 
the heavy man by the throat with a clawed hand before he could fall. She ducked under 
his bulk just as a stream of automatic fire rained in. Serah leaned out from under the 
bullet-riddled body and BOOM! blasted the machine gunner through the forehead. 
Turning to her left, she saw a fool raise a primed grenade over his head. With a slight 
smirk, BOOM! the feline warrior shot his hand. The man waved his mangled stump 
of wrist in a panic, trying to catch the grenade as it and the spoon fell away from one 
another. The resulting explosion rocked the thick trees and tossed the mangled corpses 
of the would-be grenadier and two of his nearby comrades. The bearded man, somehow 
clinging to life, struggled in the paladin’s grip. Serah grit her teeth as she tore out his 
throat, letting his body fall to the ground with a final thump. Finally free of their dead 
companion, the first two from the rush clamored towards their target.  BOOM! BOOM! 
The kemano glared through the gaping holes in their chests as they fell to the ground. 
Serah did one last quick scan and saw that the forest was clear of hostiles. Satisfied 
with the quick work she made of her foes, the paladin rushed back to the wagons. 
As she pushed past that last bit of brush, what she saw filled her with a cold fury 
that would make her deity shudder. Doc and Aleeshrak found themselves locked in 
a standoff with the last bandit, who held one of the children hostage. Doc knew his 
shotgun wouldn’t work, and Aleeshrak’s grenade launcher was even worse. They were 
stuck, and they knew it.  
 
“How… DARE you threaten these children…!” Serah thought to herself.
 
With a whispered prayer, she lined up the shot, exhaled and fired. BOOM! The bullet 
collided with the man’s head, putting him down instantly. The little girl ran crying into 
Doc’s arms, who happily caught the child. Striding forward with fire in her eyes, Serah 
fired again. BOOM! And again. BOOM! It wasn’t until both guns clicked empty several 
times that she looked around. 
The far side of the trail was littered with a few smoking craters where grenades had 
impacted, as well as various bodies that had been burned with fire or chewed up with 
buckshot. The wagons had taken a few stray shots that went wild but the metal plates 
inside kept all the children safe. Though they were fairly shaken-up. Serah removed her 
helmet, revealing her face. She climbed up into the lead wagon, turning to the children. 
“Is everyone ok? It’s safe now, you can come out, ” she declared. True to her will, the 
paladin took the time to ensure each and every child was unscathed.
58
The dimming sun kissed the valley between two peaks of an ancient mountain range. 
The forest was unusually silent. Silent that is, other than the creak of an old wooden 
wagon wheel as it rolled over the neck of a former raider that had fallen across the 
wheel-rut of the well-worn trail.
lobstross  (30 rp)

59
oVer Vie W
Lobstross are fearsome looking creatures 
that evolved from a subterranean slave 
race. Adapted to living both in and out 
of the water, these powerful beasts are 
terrifying on any terrain.
physi Cal  des Cription
In contrast to their subterranean 
relatives, the Lobstross feature smooth 
lines and powerful limbs. Where their 
cousins will feature large, protruding scales 
that jut out of their backs and bone-like 
armor, these creatures feature streamlined 
carapace plates and a large, fan-tipped 
swimming tail. Lobstross have thick 
primary arms ending in three-fingered 
hands that are used to manipulate tools 
and weapons. They have two sturdy legs 
that are capable of carrying their bulk on 
land, making them just as capable as their 
cousins on the surface. On their midsection 
are four small pincer-tipped grasping 
arms, below these arms are two rows of 
swimming legs that extend all the way to 
the end of the tail.  
 
   Male and female lobstross are nearly 
identical in height, weight, and external 
appearance. The color of their carapace 
and skin is often dictated by the 
environment they live in, evolving into 
a natural camouflage. There have been 
sightings of rare and exotic colors such 
as vibrant hues or stripes, though this 
is uncommon. Most lobstross typically 
appear brown or green.
soCiety
Lobstross tend to live alone or rarely, 
in groups of two to three. They can mix 
their saliva with sand and rock to create a 
concrete-like material used in constructing 
their underwater dome-shaped huts. While 
they do not require these dwellings, they 
are often used to house and protect their 
clutches of eggs during breeding seasons. 
Lobstross are perfectly capable of living 
on land, though they prefer water as their 
natural habitat. 
relations
Most lobstross alive today have not 
suffered as slaves, though the long history 
of their cousins and their indentured 
servitude have left them distrusting and 
wary of other races. Lobstross have no 
organization or collective, therefore the 
interactions one may face with other races 
will be exclusively on an individual basis. 
Where one may be wildly xenophobic, 
another may be more open to interactions. 
Lobstross respond well to respect. 
Treating one as an equal can be the strong 
foundation of earning their trust. Lobstross 
encounters are very rare, most races don’t 
even know they exist. 
alignment  and  religion
Lobstross tend to be neutral in 
alignment. They have no organized 
religion of their own. However, they find 
the call of the deep Old Ones abhorrent. 
They often find themselves fighting their 
fishy minions when they travel from their 
underwater cities.
adVenturers  
   Convincing a lobstross to leave the safety 
of their hole in the mud can be rather 
difficult, though there are some with a 
natural sense of wanderlust. Lobstross 
are devastatingly dangerous fighters and 
fiercely loyal to those they consider close 
friends and will follow their allies to the 
60
ends of the world if so compelled. How one 
gains the undying loyalty of a lobstross is a 
true mystery, though it is not impossible.
standard  raCial  traits
 - Ability Score Modifiers: Paragon (+4 
Str, –2 Int, –2 Wis, –2 Cha) (1 RP) 
 - Advanced Strength: Lobstross gain an 
additional +2 Str (4 RP)
 - Type: Monstrous humanoid (3 RP)
 - Size: Large (+2 Str, –2 Dex) (7 RP)
 - Base Speed: Lobstross have a base 
speed of 30 feet.
 - Languages: Xenophobic. Lobstross 
begin play speaking only Lobstross. 
Lobstross with high Intelligence 
scores can choose from the 
following: Common, Orc, Trox, and 
Undercommon. 
 - Swim: Lobstross have a swim speed of 
30 feet and gain the +8 racial bonus 
on Swim checks that a swim speed 
normally grants. (2 RP) 
 - Powerful Swimmer: Lobstross receive 
a +10 foot bonus to their swim speed. 
(1 RP) 
 - Frenzy: Once per day, whenever a 
lobstross takes damage, it flies into a 
frenzy for 1 minute, gaining a +2 racial 
bonus to Constitution and Strength, 
but a –2 penalty to AC. (2 RP) 
 - Deepsight: Lobstross are specially 
adapted to the lightless depths 
of the oceans, but not to air-filled 
environments. They can see in the dark 
up to 120 feet while underwater, but do 
not gain this benefit out of water. (2 RP)
 - Amphibious: Members of this race are 
amphibious and can breathe both air 
and water. (2RP)
 - Grabbing appendages: Lobstross have 
a small group of appendages that are 
useful for little more than to aid in 
grappling. They gain Improved Grapple 
as a bonus feat, and can maintain a 
grapple and still make attacks with 
their main appendages. (6 RP) 
Editor’s Note: Total Ability Score 
Modifiers are: +8 Str, –2 Dex, –2 Int, –2 Wis, 
–2 Cha.
alternate  raCial  traits
The following alternate racial traits may 
be selected in place of one or more of the 
standard racial traits above. 
 - Shallows dweller: Some lobstross live 
near land and often venture ashore 
table : random  starting  ages
Adulthood Intuitive Self-taught Trained
12 years +3d10 years
(15 – 42 years)
+5d10 years
(17 – 62 years)
+7d10 years
(19 – 82 years)
table : random  height  and  Weight
Gender Base Height Height 
Modifier Base Weight Weight Modifier
Male 12 ft. +1d4 ft.
(13 ft. – 16 ft.) 2000 lbs. +(1d6x100 lbs.)
(2100 – 2600 lbs.)
Female 12 ft. +1d4 ft.
(13 ft. – 16 ft.) 2000 lbs. +(1d6x100 lbs.)
(2100 – 2600 lbs.)
61
lack of hands, claw king lobstross must 
use their small secondary arms to 
manipulate objects and cannot wield 
normal weapons. This trait replaces 
grabbing appendages.
during the night to forage or hunt. 
These lobstross gain Darkvision 60. This 
trait replaces powerful swimmer.
 - Claw king: These fierce lobstross have 
enormous claws on their primary limbs 
where their hands would normally be. 
These claws grant two primary natural 
attacks, do damage as though they 
were one size category larger(1d8), 
and have the grab ability. Due to their 

62
Monk Add +1/2 to the DC of the 
monk‘s stunning fist attack.
Paladin Add +1/4 to the number of 
times per day the paladin can use the 
lay on hands ability.
Ranger Add +1/4 to the armor bonus 
of the ranger or the ranger’s animal 
companion when they are wearing 
armor.
Rogue Gain +1/2 bonus on Stealth 
checks and Perception checks made 
in dim light or darkness.
Sorcerer Add one spell known from 
the sorcerer spell list. This spell 
must be at least one level below the 
highest spell level the sorcerer can 
cast, and must be from the water 
elemental school.
Witch Add one spell from the water 
elemental school to the witch’s 
familiar. This spell must be at least 
one level below the highest spell 
level the witch can cast. If the witch 
ever replaces this familiar, the new 
familiar knows these bonus spells.
Wizard Add one spell from the cleric, 
druid, or wizard spell list with the 
water descriptor to the wizard’s 
spellbook. This spell must be at least 
one level below the highest spell 
level the wizard can cast. This spell is 
treated as one level higher unless it 
also appears on the wizard spell list.
faVored  Class  options
The following favored class options are 
available to all characters of this race who 
have the listed favored class, and unless 
otherwise stated, the bonus applies each 
time you select the favored class reward.
Alchemist Add +1/4 to the alchemist’s 
alchemical bonus to the selected 
ability score when using the 
character’s mutagen.
Arcanist When casting arcanist 
abjuration spells targeting only the 
arcanist, add +1/3 to the caster level.
Barbarian Add +2 temporary hit 
points gained when raging.
Bard Add a +1 bonus concentration 
checks when casting bard spells.
Cavalier Add +1/4 to the cavalier’s 
banner bonus.
Cleric Add +1/2 to the amount of 
damage healed when the cleric uses 
channel energy.
Druid Add +1/4 to the number of times 
per day the druid can use wild shape.
Fighter Add +1 point of damage dealt 
to any foes the fighter is currently 
grappling.
Infantryman Add +1 foot to the 
radius of the infantryman’s rally class 
feature. This option has no effect 
unless the infantryman has selected 
it 5 times (or another increment of 5).
63
oVer Vie W
Savage bugbears, as the largest of 
the goblinoids, are often seen as dumb 
thugs and brutish muscle for the smarter 
goblinoid races, this is by design. The 
bugbears who do not excel at stealth 
and cunning are shunned by their own 
community and often seek a living among 
their better known cousins. 
 
   With their large eyes and shadowy fur 
their social cues go largely missed by other 
races yet they are highly sensitive to insults 
and repercussions are swift and violent; 
this leads to tense relations with other 
races including other goblinoids. Savage 
bugbears value strength and ruthlessness 
over loyalty and tend to only stay in clans 
or warbands as long as it suits their needs 
and desires.
physi Cal  des Cription
Savage bugbears are large and imposing, 
weighing around 400 lbs and would stand 
at over seven feet tall if they weren’t always 
hunched and squatting. They have large 
milky eyes and black and brown fur that 
sticks out at odd angles from their bodies. 
The large pointed ears stand straight out to 
the sides of their large flat heads and can 
swivel to better pick up faint sounds.
soCiety
Savage bugbears prefer solitude and 
often live in small familial packs, but will 
sometimes form clans, often the clumsiest 
and least competent seek out goblin bands 
or hobgoblin nations to hire themselves out 
as enforcers and live a relatively simple life 
saVage  bugbear  (13 rp)
64
of violence. The cleverer the bugbear, the 
higher their standing in the clan; and the 
more cunning the clan, the less likely they 
are to ever encounter the less-wild races.
relations
Savage bugbears have a tenuous 
relationship with other races since they 
stopped openly eating the flesh of sapient 
species. They tend to make a showing in 
goblin bands, and hobgoblin armies, as well 
as orc tribes. Since self-sufficient bugbear 
families tend to avoid strangers, while 
mentally deficient outcasts often latch onto 
a town or warband for support, most races 
believe all bugbears are dumb brutes.
alignment  and  religion
Savage bugbears tend toward chaos 
over order except for the order of nature, 
and due to their penchant for violence 
often fall into evil. Not very religious as a 
whole, those who do follow a deity tend to 
exonerate gods of nature and combat.
adVenturers
Savage bugbears excel at stealth and 
violence and so take front-line or melee 
support roles most often in an adventuring 
party. Preferring Rogue, Fighter, Barbarian, 
or Ranger.
Male NaMes
Chickiwik, Churgakk, Hrusk, Karl.
FeMale NaMes
Juggal, Kahhacckuk, Sindnee, Swerlush.
standard raCial traits
 - Type: Bugbears are humanoids with the 
goblinoid subtype.
 - Size: Medium
 - Base Speed: Bugbears have a base 
speed of 30 feet.
 - Ability Score Modifiers: Specialized +2 
Dex, +2 Str, –2 Cha (1 RP)
 - Languages: Common, Goblin
 - Sneaky: Members of this race gain a +4 
racial bonus on Stealth checks. (5 RP)
 - Skill Training: Stealth and Perception 
are always considered class skills for 
members of this race. (1 RP) 
 - Darkvision: Bugbears can see in the dark 
up to 60ft (2RP)
table : random  starting  ages
Adulthood Intuitive Self-taught Trained
12 years +1d4 years
(13 – 16 years)
+1d6 years
(13 – 18 years)
+2d6 years
(14 – 24 years)
table : random  height  and  Weight
Gender Base Height Height Modifier Base Weight Weight 
Modifier
Male 4 ft. 7 in. +2d12 in.
(4 ft. 9 in. – 6 ft. 7 in.) 260 lbs. +(2d12x7 lbs.)
(274 – 428 lbs.)
Female 4 ft. 3 in. +2d12 in.
(4 ft. 5 in. – 6 ft. 3 in.) 220 lbs. +(2d12x7 lbs.)
(234 – 388 lbs.)
65
 - Scent: Members of this race gain the 
scent ability. (4 RP) 
alternate raCial traits
The following alternate racial traits may 
be selected in place of one or more of the 
standard racial traits above. Consult your 
GM before selecting any of these new 
options.
 - True Goblinoid: Bugbears with this 
trait feel a deep affinity to their smaller 
goblin kin. They are considered goblins 
for the purposes of qualifying for any 
feats, race traits, or classes. This racial 
trait replaces skill training.
 - Tinker: Tinkers are slightly better with 
technology than most bugbears. 
Disable Device and Escape Artist are 
always considered class skills. This racial 
trait replaces skill training. 
 - Cardan: Cardans have dark gray fur and 
prove far stealthier than their lesser 
brethren. Members of this race reduce 
the penalty for using Stealth while 
moving by 5 and can make Stealth 
checks while running at a –20 penalty 
(this number includes the penalty 
reduction from this trait). Members of 
this race can assume the appearance 
of a specific single human form of the 
same sex. The cardan always takes this 
specific form when he uses this ability. 
The creature gains a +10 racial bonus 
on Disguise checks made to appear as a 
member of the race whose appearance 
it assumes. Changing its shape is a 
standard action. This trait otherwise 
functions as alter self, save that the 
creature does not adjust its ability 
scores and can remain in this form 
indefinitely. These traits replace Scent.
 - Wikkawac: In wintry climes, albino 
bugbears called wikkawacs prowl 
the glaciers by night, hunting settlers 
and prowling the frosted roofs of log 
cabins. They gain a +4 bonus on Stealth 
checks while within frozen terrain and 
resistance 5 against cold. These traits 
replace Scent.
 - Mudd: In swampy environs or near great 
rivers, another form of bugbears, called 
mudds, is said to exist. Mudds gain a 
+4 racial bonus on Swim checks, can 
always take 10 while swimming, and 
gain a +1 natural armor bonus. These 
traits replace Scent.
 - Slate Stalker: Some bugbears adapt 
to human environs better than other 
goblinoids, and a relatively new 
species of these terrors has been 
rumored of late. Called slate stalkers, 
these bugbears possess fur containing 
the gray-black-brown of most urban 
environments. They gain a +4 bonus 
on Stealth checks while within urban 
terrain and resistance 5 against fire. 
These traits replace Scent.
 - Coalblack: Some bugbears are stillborn, 
but suddenly wheeze in a sharp intake 
of breath and return to life a full 
hour after their dead birth. Forever 
touched by death, these things called 
coalblacks, have eyes even larger than 
their kin and see through walls, they 
gain Negative Energy Affinity and are 
healed by negative energy and harmed 
by positive energy as if it were an 
undead creature, and they also gain 
Blindsense 30 Feet. These traits replace 
Scent.
faVored Class options
The following favored class options are 
available to all characters of this race who 
have the listed favored class, and unless 
otherwise stated, the bonus applies each 
time you select the favored class reward.
Alchemist Add +1/4 to the alchemist’s 
natural armor bonus when using the 
character’s mutagen.
66
Arcanist Add +1/3 to the DC to one of 
the arcanist’s exploits.
Barbarian Add a +1/2 bonus to trap 
sense or +1/3 to the bonus from the 
superstition rage power.
Bard Add +5 feet to the range of one 
of the bard’s bardic performances 
(max +30 feet to any one 
performance).
Cavalier Add +1/2 to the cavalier’s 
bonus to damage against targets of 
his challenge.
Cleric Add +1/4 to the amount of 
damage dealt or damage healed 
when the cleric uses channel energy.
Druid Add +1/2 to the damage dealt 
by the druid’s natural attacks when 
using wild shape.
Fighter Add a +1/2 circumstance 
bonus on critical hit confirmation 
rolls with a weapon of the fighter’s 
choice (maximum bonus +4). This 
bonus does not stack with Critical 
Focus.
Infantryman Add +1/4 point to 
damage bonus from firing advance 
class feature.
Monk Add +1/2 point of damage to the 
monk’s unarmed attacks.
Paladin Add +1 to the amount of 
damage the paladin heals with lay 
on hands, but only when the paladin 
uses that ability on herself.
Ranger Add +1/4 dodge bonus to 
Armor Class against the ranger’s 
favored enemies.
Rogue Add +1/2 to sneak attack 
damage dealt to creatures with the 
human sub-type.
Sorcerer Add a +1/4 bonus on caster 
level checks to overcome spell 
resistance.
Witch Add +1/4 natural armor bonus to 
the AC of the witch’s familiar.
Wizard Add a +1 bonus on 
concentration checks made due to 
taking damage while casting wizard 
spells.
67
oVer Vie W
Militant and stoic, savage hobgoblins 
maintain order through discipline. Their 
society is a complex war machine fueled by 
conquest and raiding. Savage hobgoblins 
have a fairly rigid caste system, with some 
infighting between the tiers and vying for 
dominance; but when a battle is met, they 
present a unified front. Duty and glory 
are their highest values. Highly ambitious 
and not averse to violence, the temptation 
of self-elevation through assassination 
is checked by knowing one’s superiors 
arrived in their positions by their own 
personal violent achievements, whether on 
or off the battlefield.
physi Cal  des Cription
Muscular and toned, hobgoblins are 
close to average human height, but with 
longer limbs and compact torsos. Savage 
hobgoblin skin tones range from light grey 
to dark blue-green and tend to darken with 
long sun exposure. Eye colors are on the 
warmer side, with common colors being 
gold, fiery orange, and bright red. Their ears 
are very prominent, sticking straight out 
from either side of their heads and coming 
to a narrow point. All Savage hobgoblins 
are naturally bald and have no facial hair.
saVage  hobgoblin  (11 rp)

68
soCiety
Savage hobgoblins live in military 
meritocracies with a single general at the 
top. Each caste has duties to its superiors 
and responsibility over those below. Every 
hobgoblin is trained in military service 
from infancy, with those showing more 
merit receiving higher station and those 
with less aptitude falling into a lower caste 
under the protection of a warrior. Savage 
hobgoblins tend to be very pragmatic in 
their interpersonal relationships, marrying 
as they see fit and sending their young 
to be trained as all newborns are. Those 
young mature rapidly, becoming self-
sufficient in a matter of months and fully 
mature after little more than a dozen years.
relations
Savage hobgoblins view most other 
races more as rivals than potential allies. 
They hold a special animosity for elves and 
dwarves. But orcs, half-orcs, and bugbears 
can often be found working in their 
encampments, and are their most common 
allies. Goblins are almost always present in 
savage hobgoblin society.
alignment  and  religion
Savage hobgoblins trend strongly toward 
lawful alignments due to their rigid societal 
pressures; these same pressures toward 
violence as a way of life often lead savage 
hobgoblins down a path toward evil. Good 
savage hobgoblins are the rarest and are 
usually found amongst other races, while 
those with a chaotic bent will often choose 
to branch out from their clan if they were 
born within one. Religion is not a primary 
pursuit among savage hobgoblins but there 
are those who hold a token or sometimes 
devout patronage to deities of battle and 
dominion, and monk orders dedicated to 
martial arts are not unheard of.
adVenturers
Savage hobgoblin adventurers are 
usually those with enough individual 
ambition to disagree with the strict duties 
required by savage hobgoblin society; 
whether they left voluntarily or were cast 
out. There are some that seek wealth and 
prestige enough to make their way back 
into savage hobgoblin society, and some 
of those were sent out with this mission by 
a general playing long odds. Most savage 
table : random  starting  ages
Adulthood Intuitive Self-taught Trained
15 years +1d4 years
(16 – 19 years)
+1d6 years
(16 – 21 years)
+2d6 years
(17 – 27 years)
table : random  height  and  Weight
Gender Base Height Height Modifier Base Weight Weight 
Modifier
Male 4 ft. 2 in. +2d8 in.
(4 ft. 4 in. – 5 ft. 6 in.) 165 lbs. +(2d8x5 lbs.)
(175 – 245 lbs.)
Female 4 ft. 0 in. +2d8 in.
(4 ft. 2 in. – 5 ft. 4 in.) 145 lbs. +(2d8x5 lbs.)
(155 – 225 lbs.)
69
hobgoblins tend to martial classes like 
cavaliers, fighters, monks, or rogues, but 
alchemists are also prized for their value in 
siege warfare; other forms of magic are rare 
and not greatly encouraged.
Male  N aMes 
Aiko, Jentu, Raiden.
FeMale  N aMes
Balka, Jai-ho, Reika.
standard  raCial  traits
 - Ability Score Modifiers: Savage 
hobgoblins are fast and hardy. They 
gain +2 Dexterity, and +2 Constitution 
(2RP)
 - Type: Savage hobgoblins are humanoids 
with the goblinoid subtype.
 - Size: Savage hobgoblins are Medium 
creatures and thus have no bonuses or 
penalties due to their size.
 - Base Speed: Savage hobgoblins have a 
base speed of 30 feet.
 - Languages: Savage hobgoblins 
begin play speaking Common and 
Goblin. Savage hobgoblins with high 
Intelligence scores can choose from the 
following: Draconic, Dwarven, Infernal, 
Giant, Orc, Jargon, and Handsign.
 - Sneaky: Savage hobgoblins receive a +4 
racial bonus on Stealth checks (5RP)
 - Quick Reactions: Savage hobgoblins 
gain improved initiative as a bonus feat 
(2RP)
 - Darkvision: Savage hobgoblins can see 
perfectly in the dark up to 60 feet (2RP)
alternate  raCial  traits
The following alternate racial traits may 
be selected in place of one or more of 
the standard racial traits above. This is in 
addition to the alternate traits normally 
available to savage hobgoblins.
 - Commanding: These hobgoblins have 
a natural demeanor that inspires those 
around them and gain a +4 racial 
bonus to their leadership score. This 
racial trait replaces sneaky.
faVored  Class  options
The following new favored class options 
are available to all characters of this 
race who have the listed favored class, 
and unless otherwise stated, the bonus 
applies each time you select the favored 
class reward. This is in addition to the 
favored class options normally available to 
hobgoblins.
Infantryman Add +1/4 point to the 
infantryman’s grit points.
70
oVer Vie W
Savage kobolds are miniscule in stature, 
but not identical to their typical cousin. 
While they still carry the self-same 
cautiousness, savage kobolds exhibit 
a greater willingness to integrate and 
work with larger and stronger races. This 
mentality is born from the proven method 
of strength in numbers and protection 
by proxy. Savage kobolds bear the pride 
and ego that comes with their claim to 
draconic kinship, though their altered 
culture has lessened the grating nature of 
constantly reminding their non-reptilian 
companions of such things. The typical 
sense of inadequacy that normal kobolds 
exhibit is also lessened with their savage 
cousin, as these individuals have found a 
greater sense of direction in life. Savage 
kobolds can show great pride and a sense 
of fulfillment in showing the other races of 
their mentality for hard work and thinking 
their ways out of tough situations. Many 
savage kobolds show a strong affinity for 
machinery and mining, much like their 
cousins. They also show better control over 
their racial tendency to hold grudges or 
life-long anger towards those they consider 
adversaries. Like all kobolds, they have an 
aptitude for traps and ambushes. Many 
savage kobolds have displayed a knack for 
saVage  kobold  (9 rp)

71
implementing these tactics so well that it 
has caught the attention of more than a 
few members of Savage Company.
physi Cal  des Cription
Savage kobolds stand about three feet 
tall and weigh around 35 pounds. As 
bipedal reptilian humanoids, their large 
heads and torsos extend into a trunk that 
ends with their thick tails, offset by their 
shorter lizard-like limbs. Their draconic 
snouts are filled with sharp and stout teeth, 
but their thick, scaly skin prohibits many 
facial expressions. Emotions are conveyed 
through sound, body language, lip and eye 
movement, or by the raising or flattening 
of the crest of feather-like scales that run 
from the top of their head down to the 
tips of their tails. Savage kobolds’ scales 
still show a variety of colorful hues, often 
matching the colors found in true dragons. 
While more exotic colors such as gold are 
possible, they are more of an exception 
rather than a rule.
soCiety
Savage kobolds have adapted to life 
under the sun, affording them greater and 
more expansive hunting trips and travel. 
While they still prefer the perceived safety 
and subtlety of homes based in thick 
vegetation, they have since moved past 
the days of living underground. Savage 
kobolds have learned to use the size and 
strength of other races as a mutual benefit 
to both parties. A savage kobold believes 
that the key to survival can often be found 
in working with other races. The difference 
from their cousins lies in their willingness 
to live among others, often offering their 
expertise where applicable. It is also this 
symbiotic culture that has allowed them 
to exhibit stronger wills and a tendency 
to lean towards bravery in the face of 
adversity. Savage kobolds may still fall prey 
to enthrallment by draconic creatures on 
an individual level, but it is far less common 
when compared to their cousins. A savage 
kobold is often drawn to powerful or 
particularly charismatic leaders, whom 
these reptilians will many times willingly 
choose to serve enthusiastically.
relations
Savage kobolds do well to contain the 
basis of negative emotions their cousins act 
on, often led by their desire to excel in the 
eyes of other races. While they still have a 
tendency to resort to anger or resentment, 
they will display and vent their frustrations 
through subtle insults, carefully worded 
questions, or deliberate pranks. They may 
often play practical jokes both as forms 
of resentment or as forms of endearment 
for companions they value. This has led to 
misunderstandings in the past, as there 
are times that a savage kobold means 
well but fails to consider the receiving 
party’s understanding of their culture. 
Savage kobolds appreciate the strength 
and pragmatism of savage orcs, and often 
assume they can secure better deals from 
the rather straight-forward nature of the 
greenskins; they tend to believe they are 
more clever than the savage orcs, though 
this is not necessarily true. 
Savage kobolds appreciate the 
baade’s natural lack of any prejudice 
or preconceived notions. While the 
baade appear terrifying to others, they 
understand the unfair ways that others 
may assume the nature of a person on 
appearances alone. This understanding 
has led to savage kobolds forming strong 
bonds with the baade, and some of these 
friendships have lasted entire lifetimes. 
They find it easy and even enjoyable to 
be in the presence of baade caravans for 
72
a multitude of reasons, such as protection 
in hostile territories or even the sheer 
quantity of shiny and valuable trinkets 
that pass through their trading circles. 
Savage kobolds often find kinship among 
goblins, they both share an ingenuity and 
aptitude for traps and devices, and for 
being underfoot among taller and stronger 
friends and foes. Savage kobolds generally 
dislike humans, elves, and dwarves equally, 
mostly because they are treated poorly if 
not attacked outright. They can deal with 
these “enlightened” races, if they are willing 
to respect the kobolds as equals. Gnomes 
and halflings are still viewed as punching 
bags and easy meals by savage kobolds, it 
is doubtful that any amount of socialization 
or civilizing will change this soon.  
alignment  and  religion
Savage kobolds are eager to sign up 
with a charismatic leader, but they rarely 
stop looking for ways to advance their 
position or that of their friends. Most 
savage kobolds are neutral, with some 
leaning towards lawful or good if their 
natural ambition takes a turn to advance 
their group as a whole. Savage kobolds are 
somewhat agnostic, choosing to worship 
a deity followed by their companions as 
a way to gain favor with other groups, 
or sometimes the more devout follow 
ancient dragon gods in an appeal to their 
supposed ancestry. 
adVenturers
Savage kobolds often latch on to a 
group of more powerful friends, choosing 
to follow them wherever they might 
go. Maintaining safety by proximity and 
substituting the tribe with their group of 
friends, savage kobolds’ drive for adventure 
and new experiences often overcome 
any innate fear of the world. It is not 
uncommon for them to leave the warren of 
their birth and venture forth toward new 
horizons.  
Male  N aMes 
Albrik, Arrix, Belskan, Garshaal, Kaashak, 
Sakris, Snibgug, Zerki.
FeMale  N aMes
Axora, Bidrith, Deekaa, Hapatys, Kagnaa, 
Lorashann, Lorleen, Sik.
table : random  starting  ages
Adulthood Intuitive Self-taught Trained
14 years +1d4 years
(15 – 18 years)
+1d6 years
(15 – 20 years)
+2d6 years
(16 – 26 years) 
table : random  height  and  Weight
Gender Base Height Height Modifier Base Weight Weight 
Modifier
Male 2 ft. 6 in. +2d4 in.
(2 ft. 8 in. – 3 ft. 2 in.) 25 lbs. +(2d4 lbs.)
(38 – 33 lbs.)
Female 2 ft. 4 in. +2d4 in.
(2 ft. 6 in. – 3 ft.) 20 lbs. +(2d4 lbs.)
(22 – 28 lbs.)
73
standard  raCial  traits
 - Ability Score Modifiers: Savage 
kobolds are fast but weak. They gain 
+2 Dexterity, –2 Strength, and +2 
Intelligence.
 - Type: Savage kobolds are humanoids 
with the reptilian subtype.
 - Size: Savage kobolds are Small creatures 
and thus gain a +1 size bonus to their 
AC, a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, a 
–1 penalty on their combat maneuver 
checks and to Combat Maneuver 
Defense, and a +4 size bonus on Stealth 
checks.
 - Base Speed: Savage kobolds have a 
base speed of 30 feet.
 - Languages: Savage kobolds begin play 
speaking only Draconic. Kobolds with 
high Intelligence scores can choose 
from the following: Common, Dwarven, 
Gnome, Undercommon, Jargon, and 
Handsign.
 - Natural Armor: Savage kobolds 
naturally scaly skin grants them a +1 
natural armor bonus. (2 RP)
 - Crafty: Savage kobolds gain a +2 
racial bonus on Craft (trapmaking), 
Perception, and Profession (miner) 
checks. (4 RP)
 - Skill Training: Savage kobolds always 
treat Craft (trapmaking) and Stealth as 
in-class (1 RP)
 - Darkvision: Savage kobolds can see 
perfectly in the dark up to 60 feet. (2 RP)
alternate  raCial  traits
The following alternate racial traits may 
be selected in place of one or more of 
the standard racial traits above. This is in 
addition to the alternate traits normally 
available to savage kobolds.
 - Tough Hide: Some Kobolds are born with 
thicker and stronger scales and gain 
an additional +2 bonus to their natural 
armor. This racial trait replaces crafty.
faVored  Class  options
The following new favored class options 
are available to all characters of this race 
who have the listed favored class, and 
unless otherwise stated, the bonus applies 
each time you select the favored class 
reward. This is in addition to the favored 
class options normally available to kobolds.
Infantryman Add +1/4 to AC bonus 
granted by infantryman’s dodge 
deed.
74
oVerVieW
Savage orcs are aggressive, tough, and 
strong. Warriors by nature, they respect 
strength and honor as the highest virtues. 
On an almost instinctive level, orcs 
believe they are a mighty empire, and will 
conquer their neighbors unless someone 
stronger can stop them. They rarely exert 
themselves off the battlefield except for 
building weapons and defenses; they leave 
more intricate engineering work to more 
technically savvy goblinoids. Savage orcs 
rarely traffic in slaves; and orc society is 
brutal to all its members, not out of malice, 
but as a byproduct of the short violent lives 
they tend to lead. Forever among the other 
races that despise and fear them, savage 
orcs uplift and empower an attitude of 
indifference to suffering, malicious intent, 
and a blood sworn oath to strike upon their 
enemies with swift and glorious retaliatory 
fury.
physiCal desCription
Slightly larger surface dwelling cousins to 
your typical orc, they typically stand just a 
few inches taller than most orcs and have 
greater muscle mass to match, their broad 
shoulders and thick, brawny hips often 
giving them a slightly lurching gait. They 
typically have dark green skin, coarse dark 
hair, red or orange eyes, and protruding, 
tusklike teeth. The tough hide on their feet 
mean that many chose not to wear shoes.
saVage  orC (9 rp)

75
soCiety
Savage orcs usually live in primitive tribal 
gatherings. Mysticism and tradition are 
the glue that holds orc culture together. 
They settle disputes by making increasingly 
grisly threats until, when a rival fails to 
back down, the conflict escalates into ritual 
combat. Depending on the situation that 
called for combat the stakes may be loss 
of personal property, physical humiliation, 
maiming, or even death. While their culture 
has remained largely unchanged by the 
outside world, savage orcs have found new 
slang and ways to integrate Common into 
their tongues. Many savage orcs simply 
find convenience in using Common-
friendly names, rather than deal with the 
frustrations of hearing “Ulgothin” constantly 
mispronounced. Savage orcs tend to 
build massive yurts that can be moved 
from hunting ground to hunting ground, 
and when stationary, they prefer to live 
in fortified structures made from earth or 
stone and often surrounded by a palisade. 
relations
Savage orcs value strength over all 
other virtues. Even lifelong enemies can 
sometimes win a savage orc’s grudging 
respect, or at least tolerance, if they prove 
themselves a worthy combatant.
Savage orcs regard dwarves with 
begrudging respect, they can see a kinship 
with the strength and endurance of the 
mountain people. They tend to dislike elves, 
seeing them as shifty and untrustworthy 
creatures that lie with silver tongues and 
prefer luxury to hard work. Savage orcs 
dismiss halflings and gnomes as runts who 
are only good for punting and sometimes 
eating. They often regard half-elves much 
the same as humans. Savage orcs view 
the humans as a varied race with rare 
exceptional members, but often weak and 
whining. They welcome baade traders who 
exhibit the same propensity for strength 
and hard work they admire in themselves, 
and the baadans rarely look down on them 
like other races, often treating them as 
equals.  
Savage orcs view half-orcs with pride. 
Though weaker than typical orcs, these 
half-breeds are also usually smarter, more 
cunning, and better leaders. Tribes led, or 
at least advised, by half-orcs are often more 
successful than those led by pure-blooded 
orcs. Savage orcs treat each half-orc as a 
favored son, a blessing to ensure victory to 
the tribe.
table : random  starting  ages
Adulthood Intuitive Self-taught Trained
12 years +1d4 years
(13 – 16 years)
+1d6 years
(13 – 18 years)
+2d6 years
(14 – 24 years)
table : random  height  and  Weight
Gender Base 
Height Height Modifier Base Weight Weight Modifier
Male 5 ft. 7 in. +2d12 in.
(5 ft. 9 in. – 7 ft. 7 in.) 210 lbs. +(2d12x7 lbs.)
(224 – 378 lbs.)
Female 5 ft. 3 in. +2d12 in.
(5 ft. 5 in. – 7 ft. 3 in.) 190 lbs. +(2d12x7 lbs.)
(204 – 358 lbs.)
76
alignment and religion
Savage orcs revel in the thrill of combat 
and have little love of complicated social 
situations, but they value honor and some 
orcs even develop personal codes of 
conduct, though they may seem a bit crude 
or violent to others. Savage orcs as a whole 
tend more towards neutral than good, often 
indifferent to the fate of others. This can 
vary from wildly chaotic to lawful in their 
own way. Savage orcs pay tribute to the 
gods of vague concepts like war, the hunt, 
duels, and mating.  
adVenturers
Savage orcs often leave their tribes in 
search of individual fame and fortune. 
Sometimes traveling from tribe to tribe 
seeking to trade their prowess for the spoils 
of war. Savage orcs who fail to rein in their 
tempers and the instinctive drive to solve 
problems with violence rarely last long once 
they strike out on their own. Though orcs 
who do manage to get by in other societies 
often enjoy the luxuries and comforts 
these societies can deliver, they still tend to 
dream of returning home and using their 
newfound riches to further their positions in 
their tribes.
Male NaMes
Ruk, Striker, Gash, Punt, Maw, Skar
FeMale NaMes
Shift, Gryll, Raven, Slice, Lithe, Keen, Bright
standard raCial traits
 - Ability Score Modifiers: Savage orcs 
are hearty and strong. They gain +4 
Strength, –2 Intelligence, –2 Wisdom, 
and –2 Charisma (1RP)
 - Type: Savage orcs are humanoids with 
the orc subtype.
 - Size: Savage orcs are Medium creatures.
 - Base Speed: Savage orcs have a base 
speed of 30 feet.
 - Languages: Savage orcs begin play 
speaking Common and Orc. Savage orcs 
with high Intelligence scores can choose 
from the following: Dwarven, Giant, 
Gnoll, Goblin, Undercommon, Jargon, 
and Handsign.
 - Ferocity: Savage orcs possess the ferocity 
ability which allows them to remain 
conscious and continue fighting even 
if their hit point totals fall below 0. Orcs 
are still staggered at 0 hit points or 
lower and lose 1 hit point each round as 
normal (4RP)
 - Weapon Familiarity: Savage orcs are 
always proficient with greataxes and 
falchions, and treat any weapon with 
the word “orc” in its name as a martial 
weapon (2RP)
 - Darkvision: Savage orcs can see perfectly 
in the dark up to 60 feet (2RP)
alternate raCial traits
The following alternate racial traits may 
be selected in place of one or more of the 
standard racial traits above. Consult your 
GM before selecting any of these new 
options. This is in addition to the alternate 
traits normally available to orcs.
 - Plains Runner: Some savage orcs are 
fleet of foot and spend their days 
running and chasing down game. These 
individuals gain the Run feat. This racial 
trait replaces Ferocity.
faVored Class options
The following new favored class options 
are available to all characters of this race 
who have the listed favored class, and 
unless otherwise stated, the bonus applies 
each time you select the favored class 
reward. This is in addition to the favored 
class options normally available to orcs.
Infantryman Add +1/4 point to 
damage bonus from firing advance 
class feature
77
skeletal  (10+ rp)
oVer Vie W
Skeletals, despite obvious appearances, 
are not undead. They are living beings 
created through a complex arcane 
ritual. Created from a donor corpse of 
a once living creature after its soul has 
departed, these new beings gain some 
attributes from the donated bones, but 
are entirely separate creatures. Skeletals 
may remember some of the languages, 
skills, and knowledge they held in life, 
but all the details are lost. Perhaps this 
remnant of memory is what sets them 
on the paths they choose in their new 
skeleton existence. Skeletals count as both 
Skeletal and their donor corpse race for the 
purpose of qualifying for traits, feats, and 
favored class bonuses. 
78
with no preconceived attitudes towards 
any of the established races, skeletals tend 
to form opinions based on their personal 
interactions, which are usually uniformly 
negative.  
 
alignment  and  religion
Most skeletals start as a blank slate, 
born knowing how to speak and move 
but nothing greater. Because of their 
strange origins, skeletals tend to begin 
with a neutral alignment, however typical 
experiences often cause them to veer 
toward evil. Skeletals may choose to follow 
a religion if introduced to one, but have no 
religious sects of their own. 
adVenturers
Driven by a latent desire to understand 
themselves, skeletals will often travel the 
land in search of others like them. Though 
their interactions with other races will 
often shape their mentality, their affinity 
for combat and their deceptively resilient 
bodies have solidified their value within 
Savage Company. 
 
 
Male  N aMes
Bones, Flint, Pierce, Ribeye, Shank.
FeMale  N aMes
Cortica, Flank, Marrow, Tibia, Ulna.
standard  raCial  traits
 - Ability Score Modifiers: Skeletals gain 
the ability score modifiers of the donor 
corpse race and the RP cost is the same. 
(RP varies)
 - Type: Humanoid (Skeletal)
 - Size: Skeletals are Medium creatures.
physi Cal  des Cription
Each skeletal is magically manufactured 
from the complete skeleton of a formerly 
living being. They can greatly vary in height 
and weight. The enigmatic ritual requires 
medium sized corpses from thinking beings 
that once had a soul. The ritual seems to fail 
when used on any other type of creature, 
including large or small previously sentient, 
soul-bearing beings. Ranging from charred 
black to “freshly stripped” pink or even 
porous chalky white, these macabre beings 
often appear spooky and scary. These 
creatures are magical in nature and often 
seem to defy conventional understanding 
on what constitutes as “alive” . They consist 
entirely of bones, no connective tissues or 
organs, and are capable of normal sight 
through their empty sockets as if living 
eyes were present. Skeletals do not eat or 
breathe, though they may choose to if it 
benefits them, perhaps in an attempt to 
appear more normal to other races. As a 
living being, skeletals still need to rest each 
night in order to regain their strength.
soCiety
We live in a society, however the skeletals 
do not. Eternally outsiders, these living 
skeletons are often shunned by other 
races, if not attacked on sight. Some 
skeletals seek out others of their kind to 
research the rituals that created them in an 
attempt to further their race. On occasion, 
a skeletal might be recognized for what it 
is, and accepted as a living being and not 
an undead monster. 
relations
Skeletals are almost always mistaken for 
undead, This leads to elaborate disguises 
when attempting to make friends and 
influence people. Coming into this world 
79
 - Base Speed: Skeletals have a base speed 
of 30 feet.
 - Languages: Skeletals begin play 
speaking Common. Skeletals with high 
Intelligence scores can choose from the 
following: Undercommon, Necril, and 
the racial language of the donor corpse 
(if any.)
 - Undead resistance: Skeletals gain a +2 
racial bonus on saving throws against 
disease and mind-affecting effects. 
(1RP)
 - Resist Level Drain: A Skeletal takes no 
penalties from energy drain effects, 
though he can still be killed if he 
accrues more negative levels then 
he has Hit Dice. After 24 hours, any 
negative levels a skeletal takes are 
removed without the need for an 
additional saving throw. (1 RP)
 - Senses: Darkvision 60ft (2 RP)
 - Weakness: Negative Energy Affinity. 
A skeletal is alive, but is healed by 
negative energy and harmed by 
positive energy, as if it were an undead 
creature. (–1 RP)
 - Unliving: Skeletals do not breathe or 
eat, unless they want to gain some 
beneficial effect from one of these 
activities. This means that a skeletal 
can drink potions to benefit from their 
effects but these activities are not 
required for the skeletal to survive or 
stay in good health. (4 RP)
 - Feign Death: As a swift action a Skeletal 
may go limp, fall prone, and pretend 
to be dead giving it a +20 on disguise 
checks to appear as a normal deceased 
creature. Normal activity may be 
resumed as a full round action that 
provokes attacks of opportunity. (2 RP)
 - Calcium Fiend: A skeletal may choose 
to drink a quart of fresh milk, this takes 
approximately five minutes to complete, 
afterward the skeletal gains DR 5/
bludgeoning for the next 8 hours. (1 RP)
alternate  raCial  traits
The following alternate racial traits may 
be selected in place of one or more of the 
standard racial traits above. 
 - Lifebound Soul: Some skeletals cling 
more tenaciously to life than others. 
These skeletals are healed normally 
by positive energy and damaged by 
negative energy. This replaces resist 
level drain.  
table : random  starting  ages
Adulthood Intuitive Self-taught Trained
0 years +1d2 years
(1 – 2 years)
+1d4 years
(1 – 4 years)
+2d4 years
(2 – 8 years)
table : random  height  and  Weight
Gender Base Height Height Modifier Base Weight Weight 
Modifier
Male 5 ft. 7 in. +2d12 in.
(5 ft. 9 in. – 7 ft. 7 in.) 12 lbs. +(2d12 lbs.)
(14 – 36 lbs.)
Female 5 ft. 3 in. +2d12 in.
(5 ft. 5 in. – 7 ft. 3 in.) 10 lbs. +(2d12x7 lbs.)
(12 – 34 lbs.)
80
faVored  Class  options
The following favored class options are 
available to all characters of this race who 
have the listed favored class, and unless 
otherwise stated, the bonus applies each 
time you select the favored class reward.
Alchemist Add +1/2 to the number 
of bombs per day the alchemist can 
create.
Arcanist Gain 1/6 of a new arcanist 
exploit.
Barbarian While you are raging, you 
gain an additional +2 temporary hit 
points.
Bard Add +1 to the bard’s total 
number of bardic performance 
rounds per day.
Cavalier Add +1 foot to the cavalier’s 
mount’s base speed. In combat this 
has no effect unless the cavalier has 
selected this reward five times (or 
another increment of five). If the 
cavalier ever replaces this mount, the 
new mount gains this bonus to its 
speed.
Cleric Add +1 point when channeling 
negative energy.
Druid Gain +1/3 DR/– when using wild 
shape.
Fighter Add +2 to the fighter’s 
Constitution score for the purpose 
of determining when he dies from 
negative hit points.
Infantryman Add +1/4 point to the 
infantryman’s grit points.
Monk Add +¼ point to the monks 
unarmored AC bonus.
Paladin Add +1 to the paladin’s cold 
resistance (to a maximum increase 
of 10).
Ranger Add a +1 bonus on Perception 
and Survival checks made in dim 
light and darkness.
Rogue Add a +1/2 bonus on Bluff and 
Intimidate checks.
Sorcerer Add +1/2 to either cold or 
electricity resistance (to a maximum 
increase of 10).
Witch When casting a witch spell with 
the fear descriptor, add +1/3 to the 
effective caster level of the spell.
Wizard When casting wizard 
polymorph spells that target only the 
wizard, add +1/2 to the caster level.
81
this  seCtion  details  neW Class  options  for  a gritty , 
militaristi C setting  With  expanded  firearms  and 
taCtiCal sele Ctions . entries  are  Written  to be 
uni Versally  appli Cable  With  standard  emerging  
firearms  rules  in pla Ce WhiCh is Why most  arChetypes  
spe Cifi Cally  grant  profi Cien Cy in firearms . hoWeVer, 
they  are  designed  to Work  Well  With  guns  eVery Where  
Campaign  settings  giVen the  follo Wing  adJustments : 
early  firearms  are  seen  as antiques , and  adVanCed 
firearms  are  Widespread . firearms  are  simple  Weapons , 
and  all  guns  and  their  ammunition  are  bought  or 
Crafted  for  10% of the  listed  Cost  in this  book .
Classes  and  arChetypes
82
infantryman
For a few brave men and women, battle 
sounds different than it does for the 
typical fighter. The clash of steel and the 
sizzle of spell energy are drowned out by 
the thunderous rhythm of gunfire, the 
pounding of marching feet, and the clear 
commanding voice of the infantryman.
Infantrymen are a brave and disciplined 
force. The only way to take and hold ground 
in modern combat is to put boots on the 
ground. Using their three main tools: shoot, 
move, and communicate the infantrymen 
bring the power of firearms to bear in a 
unique way. They use cover and movement 
to their advantage and compounding their 
fighting prowess with a force-multiplying 
morale boost to their allies.
Role: Infantrymen are precise strikers, 
often moving from place to place, they 
value mobility over defensive positions. 
Brave, tactical, and sometimes suicidal, 
many infantrymen know that violence 
of action can often overcome planning 
shortcomings, and they always run toward 
the sound of gunfire.
Alignment: Any.
Hit Die: d10.
Starting Wealth: 5d6 x 10 gp (average 
175 gp) In addition, each character begins 
play with an outfit worth 10 gp or less.
Class Skills: The infantryman’s class skills 
are Acrobatics (Dex), Climb (Str), Craft (Int), 
Heal (Wis), Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge 
(engineering) (Int), Perception (Wis), 
Profession (Wis), Ride (Dex), Sleight of 
Hand (Dex), Survival (Wis), and Swim (Str).
Skill Ranks per Level: 4 + Int modifier.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: 
Infantrymen are proficient with all simple 
and martial weapons, and with all firearms. 
They are proficient with light and medium 
armor.
Gunsmith: The infantryman begins 
play with a firearm worth no more than 
150 gp (according to the cost adjustment 
of firearms in the campaign setting.) The 
infantryman also gains Gunsmithing as a 
bonus feat.
Bonus Languages: An infantryman’s 
bonus language options include Military 
Handsign and Hand-sign, a basic set 
of gestures that can be used to convey 
information that is often expanded with 
specialized or secret signs known only 
within a single organization. This choice is in 
addition to the bonus languages available 
to the character because of his race.
An infantryman also knows Jargon, an 
ever-changing assortment of acronyms, 
in-jokes, and occupationally specialized 
verbiage, which he learns upon becoming 
a 1st-level infantryman. Jargon is a free 
language for an infantryman.That is, 
he knows it in addition to his regular 
allotment of languages and it doesn’t take 
up a language slot.
In a “Guns Everywhere” campaign setting: 
Guns are commonplace. Early firearms are 
seen as antiques, and advanced firearms are 
widespread. Firearms are simple weapons, 
and early firearms, advanced guns, and their 
ammunition are bought or crafted for 10% of 
the cost listed. The Infantryman loses the gun-
smith class feature (but retains the starting 
firearm) and instead gains the gun training 
class feature at 1st level.
83
Grit (Ex): At the start of each day, an 
infantryman gains a number of grit points 
equal to his Wisdom modifier (minimum 
1). His grit goes up or down throughout 
the day, but usually cannot go higher than 
his Wisdom modifier (minimum 1), though 
some feats and magic items may affect this 
maximum. An infantryman spends grit to 
accomplish deeds (see below), and regains 
grit in the following ways:
Critical Hit with a Firearm: Each time 
the infantryman confirms a critical 
hit with a firearm attack while in the 
heat of combat, he regains 1 grit 
point. Confirming a critical hit on a 
helpless or unaware creature or on a 
creature that has fewer Hit Dice than 
half the infantryman’s character level 
does not restore grit.
Killing Blow with a Firearm: When 
the infantryman reduces 
a creature to 0 or fewer 
hit points with a firearm 
attack while in the heat of 
combat, he regains 1 grit point. 
Destroying an unattended object, 
reducing a helpless or unaware 
creature to 0 or fewer hit points, or 
reducing a creature that has fewer 
Hit Dice than half the infantryman’s 
character level to 0 or fewer hit 
points does not restore any grit.
The infantryman gains access to the 
following Deeds:
Infantryman’s Dodge (Ex): At 1st level, 
the infantryman gains an uncanny 
knack for getting out of the way of 
ranged attacks. When a ranged attack 
is made against the infantryman, he 
can spend 1 grit point to move 5 feet 
as an immediate action; doing so 
grants the infantryman a +2 bonus 
to AC against the triggering attack. 
This movement is not a 5-foot step, 
and provokes attacks of opportunity. 
Alternatively, the infantryman can 
drop prone to gain a +4 bonus to 
AC against the triggering attack. The 
infantryman can only perform this 
deed while wearing medium or light 
armor, and while carrying no more 
than a medium load.
Quick Clear (Ex): At 1st level, as a 
standard action, the infantryman can 
remove the broken condition from a 

84
single firearm he is currently wielding, 
as long as that condition was gained 
by a firearm misfire. The infantryman 
must have at least 1 grit point to 
perform this deed. Alternatively, if 
the infantryman spends 1 grit point 
to perform this deed, he can perform 
quick clear as a move equivalent 
action instead of a standard action.
Change Socks (Ex): At 3rd level, as 
a move action, the infantryman 
can spend 1 grit point to replace 
his socks, allowing him to negate 
the following effects: fatigued, 
exhausted, shaken, and frightened 
conditions. 
Pistol-Whip (Ex): At 3rd level, the 
infantryman can make a surprise 
melee attack with the butt or handle 
of his firearm as a standard action. 
When he does, he is considered to be 
proficient with the firearm as a melee 
weapon and gains a bonus on the 
attack and damage rolls equal to the 
enhancement bonus of the firearm. 
The damage dealt by the pistol-
whip is of the bludgeoning type, 
and is determined by the size of the 
firearm. One-handed firearms deal 
1d6 points of damage (1d4 if wielded 
by Small creatures) and two-handed 
firearms deal 1d10 points of damage 
(1d8 if wielded by Small creatures). 
Regardless of the infantryman’s size, 
the critical range/multiplier of this 
table : infantryman
Level Base Attack 
Bonus
Fort  
Save
Ref  
Save
Will  
Save Special
1st +1 +2 +2 +0 Deeds, Grit, Gunsmith
2nd +2 +3 +3 +0 Firing Advance +1
3rd +3 +3 +3 +1 Deeds, Ruck
4th +4 +4 +4 +1 Bonus feat
5th +5 +4 +4 +1 Rally +1, Gun Training
6th +6/+1 +5 +5 +2 Firing Advance +2
7th +7/+2 +5 +5 +2 Deeds
8th +8/+3 +6 +6 +2 Bonus feat
9th +9/+4 +6 +6 +3 Rally +2
10th +10/+5 +7 +7 +3 Firing Advance +3, Layout
11th +11/+6/+1 +7 +7 +3 Deeds
12th +12/+7/+2 +8 +8 +4 Bonus feat
13th +13/+8/+3 +8 +8 +4 Rally +3, Infantryman’s Advance 1/day
14th +14/+9/+4 +9 +9 +4 Firing Advance +4
15th +15/+10/+5 +9 +9 +5 Deeds
16th +16/+11/+6/+1 +10 +10 +5 Bonus feat
17th +17/+12/+7/+2 +10 +10 +5 Rally +4, Infantryman’s Advance 2/day
18th +18/+13/+8/+3 +11 +11 +6 Firing Advance +5
19th +19/+14/+9/+4 +11 +11 +6 Deeds
20th +20/+15/+10/+5 +12 +12 +6 Bonus feat, One Man Army
85
attack is 20/×2. If the attack hits, the 
infantryman can make a combat 
maneuver check to knock the target 
prone as a free action. Performing this 
deed costs 1 grit point.
Push Up (EX): At 3rd level an Infantryman 
can as a move action stand up from 
Prone without provoking an AoO. By 
spending 1 grit point this is reduced 
to a free action.
Lightning Reload (Ex): At 7th level, as 
long as the infantryman has at least 
1 grit point, he can reload a single 
barrel of a one-handed or two-
handed firearm as a swift action 
once per round. If he has the Rapid 
Reload feat or is using an alchemical 
cartridge (or both), he can reload 
a single barrel of the weapon as 
a free action each round instead. 
Furthermore, using this deed does 
not provoke attacks of opportunity.
Covering Fire (Ex): At 11th level, 
as long as he has at least 1 grit 
point, an Infantryman can as a full 
round action expend 5 uses of 
ammunition(10 uses of ammunition 
if the infantryman’s weapon has 
the Automatic quality) to lay down 
covering fire. For one round he is 
treated as threatening a cone area 
within line of sight that extends from 
one face of his square to his first 
range increment. During this round 
he may make a number of additional 
attacks of opportunity per round 
equal to his Dexterity bonus.
Evasive (Ex): At 15th level, when the 
infantryman has at least 1 grit point, 
he gains the benefit of the evasion, 
uncanny dodge, and improved 
uncanny dodge rogue class features. 
He uses his infantryman level as his 
rogue level for improved uncanny 
dodge.
Menacing Shot (Ex): At 15th level, 
the infantryman can spend 1 grit 
point, shoot a firearm into the air, 
and affect all living creatures within 
a 30-foot-radius burst as if they 
were subject to the fear spell. The 
DC of this effect is equal to 10 + 
1/2 the infantryman’s level + the 
infantryman’s Wisdom modifier.
Slinger’s Luck (Ex): At 15th level, the 
infantryman can spend grit to reroll 
a saving throw or a skill check. It 
costs 2 grit points to reroll a saving 
throw, and 1 grit point to reroll a skill 
check. The infantryman must take 
the result of the second roll, even if 
it is lower. The deed’s cost cannot be 
reduced by the true grit class ability, 
the Signature Deed feat, or any other 
effect that reduces the amount of 
grit a deed costs.
Cheat Death (Ex): At 19th level, 
whenever the infantryman is reduced 
to 0 or fewer hit points, he can 
spend all of his remaining grit points 
(minimum 1) to instead be reduced to 
1 hit point.
Death’s Shot (Ex): At 19th level, when the 
infantryman scores a critical hit, he 
can spend 1 grit point to deal normal 
damage, and the target must succeed 
at a Fortitude saving throw with a DC 
equal to 10 + 1/2 the infantryman’s 
level + the infantryman’s Dexterity 
modifier. On a failed saving throw, 
the target dies. This is a death attack. 
Performing this deed does not allow 
the infantryman to regain grit from 
confirming a critical hit or making a 
killing blow.
Firing Advance (Ex): Starting at 2nd 
level an infantryman gains a +1 bonus to 
attack and damage rolls made with ranged 
weapons when he has moved more than 
five feet in that round. This bonus increases 
86
by 1 at 6th level and every 4 levels thereafter 
(6th, 10th, 16th, 18th) to a maximum of +5.
Ruck (Ex): At 3rd level the infantryman 
adds a bonus equal to 1/2 his class level 
to his Strength score for the purpose 
of determining his carrying capacity. In 
addition, an infantryman can move at his 
normal speed while carrying a medium 
load.
Gun Training (Ex): Starting at 5th level, 
an infantryman can select one specific type 
of firearm. He gains a bonus equal to his 
Dexterity modifier on damage rolls when 
firing that type of firearm. Furthermore, 
when he misfires with that type of firearm, 
the misfire value of that firearm increases by 
2 instead of 4. 
Rally (Ex): At 5th level, an infantryman’s 
voice becomes a source of inspiration to 
his allies and companions. As long as the 
infantryman’s voice is clear, all allies within 
30 feet receive a +1 morale bonus on attack 
and damage rolls. At 9th level, and every 
four levels thereafter (9th, 
13th, and 17th), these bonuses increase 
by +1. These bonuses stack with the Morale 
bonus provided by other infantryman’s 
Rally abilities up to a maximum of the 
recipients’ HD.
Layout (Ex): At 10th level an infantryman 
gains the Halfling feat Well Prepared even if 
he does not meet the prerequisites.
Infantryman’s Advance (Ex): At 13th 
level, an infantryman can once per day 
move up to twice his base speed as a move 
action. He may use Stealth as part of this 
movement, but takes a –10 penalty to his 
check for doing so. At 17th level, he can do 
this twice per day.
One Man Army(Ex): At 20th level the 
infantryman becomes a dynamic force 
multiplier causing a paradigm shift in 
modern combat tactics and changing the 
conventions of asymmetric warfare. The 
infantryman can now wield a two-handed 
firearm in one hand, and can make a Full 
Attack after a move action.
faVored Class options
The favored class bonuses from the 
gunslinger class can also be chosen 
in addition to these new favored class 
bonuses. 
 - Baade: Add +1/4 point to damage bonus 
from firing advance class feature.
 - Dwarves: Add 1/2 point to strength score 
for determining carrying capacity.
 - Elves: Add +1/4 bonus to AC bonus 
granted by infantryman’s dodge deed.
 - Goblins: Add +1/3 on critical hit 
confirmation rolls made with firearms 
(maximum bonus of +5). This bonus 
does not stack with Critical Focus.
 - Half-elves: Add +1/4 point to the 
infantryman’s grit points.
 - Half-orcs: Add +1/4 point to damage 
bonus from firing advance class feature
 - Halflings: Add a +1/4 bonus to the skill 
check for the well prepared feat.
 - Humans: Add +1/5 bonus to rally class 
feature, does not stack with other 
infantryman’s rally class feature.
 - Savage Bugbears: Add +1/4 point to 
damage bonus from firing advance class 
feature.
 - Savage Hobgoblins: Add +1/4 point to 
the infantryman’s grit points.
 - Savage Kobolds: Add +1/4 bonus to AC 
bonus granted by infantryman’s dodge 
deed.
 - Savage Orcs: Add +1/4 point to damage 
bonus from firing advance class feature.
87
Combat  medi C 
alChemist  arChetype
While some alchemists like to conduct 
experiments in their laboratory, the 
combat medic takes his expertise to the 
battlefield.  He applies his skills to both 
heal his allies and take the fight to the 
enemy as long as possible. Eschewing the 
use of poisons, these adept practitioners 
of combat and alchemy can deliver 
dangerous bombs or healing buffs.
Role: Combat Medics use their 
expanded weapon and armor proficiencies 
to be a stronger presence on the 
battlefield, getting up close and personal 
to damage the enemy and heal their 
friends either by granting infusions 
or injections. They are also adept at 
maintaining a forced march, sleeping in 
their armor, and shrugging off mortal 
wounds. A combat medic could be an 
alchemical healer that hangs back and 
hands out potions he crafts out of combat; 
a bomb-throwing berserker wading into 
the fray tossing bombs, self-healing, and 
firing a weapon; or anywhere in between. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: 
Combat medics are proficient with all 
simple and martial weapons, firearms, and 
bombs. They are also proficient with light 
and medium armor, but not with shields. 
This replaces the combat medic’s weapon 
and armor proficiencies and replaces 
poison resistance and poison immunity.
Last Man Standing: At 2nd level, a 
combat medic gains Endurance and 
Diehard as bonus feats. 
This replaces poison use and swift 
poisoning. 
Suggested Discoveries: Healing Bombs, 
Injections, Swift Alchemy, Precise Bombs
Craft Wright  
alChemist  arChetype
The craftwright spends all his time 
studying and mastering arcane secrets, 
honing the skills needed to create strange 
and exotic items and machines fueled by 
eldritch powers. You can usually find one 
deep in a complex laboratory located in a 
city that offers easy access to the spells and 
components they need to construct their 
terrifying machines.
Alchemical Craftsman: At 3rd level, 
the craftwright gains master craftsman 
as a bonus feat, using his ranks in Craft 
(alchemy) as the required skill. 
This ability replaces mutagen.
neW alChemist  
dis CoVery  aVailable  to 
all  alChemists : 
inJeCtions
Benefit: When the alchemist creates 
an extract, he can distill it in a special way 
that allows it to be used on others. The 
extract does not persist after the alchemist 
sets it down like infusions, and as long as 
the extract exists, it continues to occupy 
one of the alchemist’s daily extract slots. 
An Injectable extract can be used on a 
non-alchemist to gain its effects, but the 
alchemist must make a touch attack with a 
syringe on a non-willing or non-restrained 
patient, this touch attack gains a bonus of 
one half the alchemists level, deals 1 point 
of lethal damage, and does not provoke.
88
Construct Craftsman: At 5th level, 
the craftwright gains craft construct as a 
bonus feat. In addition, his craftwright level 
counts as his caster level for the purpose of 
creating constructs.
This ability replaces throw anything.
Preserve Essence: At 7th level, the 
craftwright learns how to break down 
magical items and constructs, and 
repurpose their components to make new 
items. When the craftwright destroys an 
item, he can reclaim 50% of the items gold 
price and all of the spells used to create 
the item. These preserved spells and GP 
must be incorporated into a new item the 
craftwright is crafting within 24 hours or 
they are lost, the preserved spells and GP 
cannot be used for any purpose other than 
crafting new items. 
This ability replaces poison use and swift 
poisoning. 
bugler  bard  arChetype
Not all bards are traveling minstrels 
and carefree performers. The bugler is 
a necessary complement to any large 
fighting force. She drums out the beat for 
their marching feet and plays the tune to 
sound the retreat.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A 
bugler is proficient with all simple and 
martial weapons, plus firearms. Buglers 
are also proficient with light and medium 
armor (but not shields). A bugler can cast 
bard spells while wearing light or medium 
armor without incurring the normal arcane 
spell failure chance. Like any other arcane 
spellcaster, a bugler wearing heavy armor 
incurs a chance of arcane spell failure if the 
spell in question has a somatic component. 
A multiclass bugler still incurs the normal 
arcane spell failure chance for arcane spells 
received from other classes.
This replaces lore master.
The bugler gains access to the following 
list of bardic performances, this alters 
bardic performance:
  
Reveille (Su): At 1st level, a bugler 
can use her performance to awaken 
and rouse creatures from inactivity. 
Any creature who hears reveille 
is immediately awakened. Any 
unconscious creatures, including 
those with negative hit points, 
immediately become conscious but 
may become unconscious again on 
the next round from ongoing effects 
such as hit point loss. Each round 
of the reveille, she makes a Perform 
(bugle, or other audible instrument) 
skill check. Any creature within 30 
feet of the bugler that is affected 
by an ongoing attack that causes 
drowsy, sleep, unconsciousness, 
stun, or paralysis may use the 
bugler’s Perform check result in place 
of its saving throw if the Perform 
check is higher. If a creature within 
range of the reveille is already under 
the effect of a non-instantaneous 
magical attack that causes drowsy, 
sleep, unconsciousness, stun, or 
paralysis, it gains another saving 
throw against the effect each round 
it hears the reveille, but it must use 
the bugler’s Perform check result for 
the save. Reveille has no effect on 
attacks that don’t allow saves. This 
ability relies on audible components.
This replaces distraction.
Boots and Saddles (Su): At 1st level, 
a bugler can use her performance 
to call allies to ready for action 
allowing her to negate some harmful 
effects. Any ally that hears boots 
and saddles ignores the Fatigued, 
Shaken, and Sickened conditions 
for the duration of the performance. 
At 6th level and beyond, boot and 
saddles will remove these conditions, 
as well as Exhausted, Frightened, and 
89
Nauseated. When boots and saddles 
ends, any ally may reroll their saves 
to avoid gaining these conditions 
again. This ability relies on audible 
components.
This replaces fascinate.
Guard Mounting (Su): A bugler of 
6th level or higher can use her 
performance to inspire an alert 
fighting spirit in her allies (including 
herself ), motivating them and 
improving their awareness in 
combat. To be affected, an ally must 
be able to perceive the bugler’s 
performance. An affected ally 
receives a +2 dodge bonus to AC 
and a +2 competence bonus on 
perception checks. At 10th level, and 
every four bugler levels thereafter, 
this bonus increases by +1, to a 
maximum of +5 at 18th level. Guard 
mounting is a mind-affecting 
ability. This ability relies on audible 
components.
This replaces suggestion.
Cadence (Su): At 8th level or higher 
a bugler can use her performance 
to inspire troops on a long march. 
A group or army that is traveling 
under cadence can make a forced 
march without needing Constitution 
checks or suffering any nonlethal 
damage from doing so, allowing 
them to cover great distances while 
still arriving ready to do battle. This 
performance affects a number of 
creatures whose hit dice equal up 
to four times the bugler’s level, the 
effect ends when the group stops 
marching. Cadence can only be 
performed once per day. This ability 
relies on audible components.
This replaces dirge of doom.
Taps (Sp): A bugler of 14th level or 
higher can use her performance 
to rouse the dead. With each 
performance of taps the bugler may 
restore some hit points and may 
bring a single recently slain creature 
within 30 feet back to life like the 
spell breath of life. This ability relies 
on audible components.
This replaces frightening tune.
 
   Heroic Charge (Su): This ability allows 
a bugler of 18th level or higher inspire 
all allies within 30 feet to make a charge 
attack as an immediate action. To be 
affected by this ability, allies must hear 
the performance and be able to make a 
charge action against a foe within range. 
Heroic charge can only be performed 
once per day. This ability relies on audible 
components.
This replaces mass suggestion.
Tattoo Call (Sp): This ability functions 
like the spell deathless, and allows a 
bugler of 20th level or higher to use her 
performance to become an anchor for the 
souls of herself and her cohorts, allowing 
all allies who can hear her to continue 
fighting, preventing death from hit point 
damage. No matter how much damage 
allies take, they remain alive (though 
not necessarily conscious) until the 
performance ends. Tattoo call can only be 
performed once per day. This ability relies 
on audible components.
This replaces deadly performance.
90
operator  bra Wler  
arChetype
An elite operative who is trained in 
many forms of combat for unsupported 
operations behind enemy lines. A master 
of various weapons and techniques, the 
operator can seamlessly switch between 
styles and tactics at a moment’s notice 
to outmaneuver unwitting opponents. 
He is the ideal choice for solo missions 
into enemy territory or to round out a fire 
team that needs a commando of varied 
skillsets. 
Class Skills: An operator gains Bluff as a 
class skill.
This alters the brawler’s class skills.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: An 
operator is proficient with all firearms, 
simple weapons, swords, and all weapons 
from the close fighter weapon group. 
He is proficient with light armor but not 
shields.
This modifies weapon and armor 
proficiency.
Grit Training (Ex): At 1st level, an 
operator gains the grit and deeds class 
features identical to the gunslinger class 
feature with the following exception: The 
operator gains one deed at 1st level, a 
second deed selected at 3rd level, and 
then one additional deed every 4 levels 
after. An operator may pick any deed 
available to gunslingers, but his operator 
level must meet the minimum level 
required for the deed.
This replaces brawler’s cunning and 
maneuver training.
Operator’s Flurry (Ex): Starting at 2nd 
level, an operator can make an operator’s 
flurry as a full-attack action. When doing 
so, an operator has the two-weapon 
fighting feat when attacking with any 
combination of unarmed strikes, weapons 
from the close fighter weapon group, or 
firearms. He does not need to use two 
different weapons to use this ability.
An operator applies his full Strength 
modifier to his damage rolls for all attacks 
made with operator’s flurry except those 
made with firearms, whether the attacks 
are made with an off-hand weapon or 
a weapon wielded in both hands. An 
operator can substitute disarm, sunder, 
and trip combat maneuvers for unarmed 
attacks as part of operator’s flurry. An 
operator with natural weapons can’t use 
such weapons as part of operator’s flurry, 
nor can he make natural weapon attacks 
in addition to his operator’s flurry attacks.
At 8th level, the operator gains use of 
the Improved Two-Weapon Fighting feat 
when using operator’s flurry. At 15th level, 
he gains use of the Greater Two-Weapon 
Fighting feat when using operator’s flurry.  
   This modifies brawler’s flurry.
Gun Training (Ex): Starting at 5th level, 
an operator can select one specific type 
of firearm (such as a coach gun, automatic 
pistol, rifle, or submachine gun). He gains 
a bonus equal to his Dexterity modifier 
on damage rolls when firing that type of 
firearm. Furthermore, when he misfires 
with that type of firearm, the misfire value 
of that firearm increases by 2 instead of 
4. Every four levels thereafter (9th, 13th, 
and 17th), the operator picks up another 
type of firearm, gaining these bonuses for 
those types as well.
This replaces close weapon mastery and 
awesome blow.
Weapons Master (Ex): At 20th level, 
the operator reaches his peak and learns 
proficiency and can use his operator’s 
91
flurry with all martial weapons, he also 
gains a bonus equal to his Dexterity 
modifier on damage rolls when making an 
attack with any ranged weapon, instead 
of only his selected firearms from gun 
training.  
   This replaces improved awesome blow.
dri Ver  CaValier  
arChetype
The driver is defined not only by his 
dedication to his order or his prowess on 
the battlefield, but also by his intuitive 
skill with machinery. Where some cavaliers 
are simply skilled with horses or well-
trained knights, the driver spends his life in 
tinkering with technology trying to make 
the fastest, most maneuverable vehicle, 
forsaking training with animals in pursuit 
of the need for speed. 
Class Skills: Knowledge (engineering) 
is a class skill for drivers, however handle 
animal is not. 
   This alters the cavalier’s class skills.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency (Ex): 
Drivers are proficient with all simple and 
martial weapons, firearms, and light armor.  
   This replaces the cavalier’s weapon and 
armor proficiencies. 
table : V ehi Cle  mount  statisti Cs
Class 
Level
Bonus 
Hit 
Points
Speed Acceleration CMD Base 
Save
Bonus 
AC Special
1 20 0 0 1 1 2 Efficient repair
2 30 0 0 1 1 3  
3 30 10 0 1 1 3 Evasion
4 40 10 0 2 2 4  
5 40 10 0 2 2 4  
6 50 20 10 2 2 5 Magic propulsion
7 50 20 10 3 3 5  
8 60 20 10 3 3 6  
9 60 30 10 3 3 6 Carrying capacity x2
10 70 30 10 4 4 7  
11 70 30 10 4 4 7  
12 80 40 20 4 4 8  
13 80 40 20 5 5 8  
14 90 40 20 5 5 9  
15 90 90 20 5 5 9 Improved evasion
16 100 50 20 6 6 10  
17 100 50 20 6 6 10  
18 110 60 30 6 6 11  
19 110 60 30 6 6 11  
20 120 60 30 6 6 12 Carrying capacity x4
92
Vehicle Mount (Ex): At 1st level, a driver 
forms a bond with a unique vehicle that he 
chooses to be his mount. He must spend 
seven days with the vehicle, repairing 
and modifying it to suit his needs before 
it becomes his vehicle mount, but he can 
change vehicles at any time he chooses. 
The driver does not take an armor check 
penalty on Ride checks while driving his 
vehicle. 
Any vehicle available to the players 
may be selected by the driver, with GM 
approval.
Much like a druid’s animal companion, 
the driver’s vehicle mount gains additional 
bonuses to its base statistics from the 
Table: Vehicle Mount Statistics.
Efficient Repair: The driver requires half 
as much time and gold to repair his vehicle 
mount.
Magic Propulsion: The driver has figured 
out how to propel his vehicle with magic 
machinery. The propulsion cannot be 
individually targeted, requires no fuel, and 
the driver automatically succeeds all Ride 
checks to maneuver the vehicle.  
   This ability replaces the standard 
cavalier’s mount and expert trainer 
abilities.
battle  Chaplain  
Cleri C arChetype
While most clerics are able to wade into 
the battlefield and can heal their allies, the 
battle chaplain is highly focused on these 
disciplines. Forsaking the ability to channel 
against undead, she becomes more 
effective at healing, while at the cost of the 
flexibility and spellcasting with domains, 
she gains increased prowess in battle with 
weapon training.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A 
battle chaplain is proficient with all simple 
and martial weapons and with all armor 
(heavy, light, and medium) and shields 
(including tower shields). 
   This replaces the cleric’s weapon and 
armor proficiencies. 
Healing Channeler (Su): A battle 
chaplain must choose to channel positive 
energy, and when she does, she cannot 
choose to target undead, even if she 
worships a deity who is neutral or if she is 
not devoted to a particular deity. A battle 
chaplain cannot worship a deity who is 
evil. When using channel energy to heal 
living creatures, the amount of healing 
done is increased by +50%. 
   This ability alters channel energy.
Weapon Training (Ex): Starting at 5th 
level, a battle chaplain can select one 
group of weapons, as noted in the fighter 
weapon training description. Whenever 
she attacks with a weapon from this 
group, she gains a +1 bonus on attack and 
damage rolls.
Every four levels thereafter (9th, 13th, 
and 17th), a battle chaplain becomes 
further trained in another group of 
weapons. She gains a +1 bonus on attack 
and damage rolls when using a weapon 
from this group. In addition, the bonuses 
granted by previous weapon groups 
increase by +1 each. For example, when 
a battle chaplain reaches 9th level, she 
receives a +1 bonus on attack and damage 
rolls with one weapon group and a +2 
bonus on attack and damage rolls with 
the weapon group selected at 5th level. 
Bonuses granted from overlapping groups 
do not stack. Take the highest bonus 
granted for a weapon if it resides in two or 
more groups.
93
A battle chaplain also adds this bonus to 
any combat maneuver checks made with 
weapons from her group. This bonus also 
applies to the battle chaplain’s Combat 
Maneuver Defense when defending 
against disarm and sunder attempts made 
against weapons from this group.
Battle Grace (Su): At 10th level a battle 
chaplain adds half her Wisdom modifier as 
a sacred bonus to attack and damage rolls, 
minimum 1.
These abilities replace domains.
sophi C fighter  
arChetype
The sophic has focused her mind as 
well as her body toward martial pursuits. 
Through constant devotion and research 
into esoteric knowledge she has made 
contact with an extradimensional plane in 
which is stored a perfect example of every 
weapon, shield, and armor ever imagined.
Class Skills: The sophic adds Knowledge 
(arcana) to her list of class skills. 
   This alters the fighter’s class skills. 
 
   Akashic Armory (Su): As a swift action 
the sophic can summon a single weapon, 
shield, or armor of which she is proficient 
from the akashic armory. Items summoned 
in this way are always Masterwork and a 
perfect representation of the exact type 
summoned. These items are physical and 
permanent while possessed by the sophic 
but disappear a number of rounds after 
they leave the sophic’s possession equal to 
one fifth of her sophic level, minimum one. 
Summoned items appear fully donned 
or wielded in hand when drawn from 
the akashic armory, additionally items 
possessed by the sophic fighter may be 
exchanged for a newly summoned item 
as part of the swift action. Any weapons, 
armor, or shields owned or purchased by 
the sophic may be stored in the akashic 
armory for later retrieval, but the armory 
will reject any items that are not of at 
least masterwork quality. The quality of 
the items drawn from the akashic armory 
increases as the sophic gains levels and 
her knowledge becomes more complete, 
at 6th level items summoned are +1 magic 
items, and gain an additional +1 for every 4 
levels beyond 6th up to a maximum of +4 
at 18th level.
This replaces bravery.
Akashic Gate (Su): At 6th level the 
sophic can summon from the akashic 
armory any throwable weapon at great 
speed. This replaces one of her attacks and 
otherwise functions like a normal thrown 
weapon attack.
This replaces the fighter’s bonus feat 
gained at 6th level.
Akashic Bombardment (Sp): At 12th 
level the sophic gains the ability to 
summon a multitude of weapons from the 
akashic armory at once in a devastating 
30ft cone attack, dealing 1d6 points of 
piercing and slashing damage per sophic 
level (maximum 15d6). This ability is a 
standard action usable a number of times 
per day equal to 1 + her Constitution 
modifier, reflex save for half and the DC is 
equal to 16 plus her Constitution modifier. 
   This replaces the fighter’s bonus feat 
gained at 12th level.
Akashic Vestments (Su): At 16th level 
the sophic may choose to summon from 
the akashic armory any specific magic 
armor, weapon, or shield with a cost less 
than 8,000 GP per sophic level. Some 
types of specific magic items may not be 
available, such as luck blades with active 
charges. This is up to GM discretion. 
   This replaces the fighter’s bonus feat 
gained at 16th level. 
94
lodestone  kineti Cist  
element
The kineticist is an interesting class. 
Instead of a new archetype, we felt that 
a new element and its accompanying 
talents and infusions would fit our vision 
a lot better. A lodestone kineticist controls 
the powers of magnetism and can create 
a storm of metal around them and fire 
bullets at foes with their mind.
Kineticists who focus on the element of 
lodestone are called magnetokineticists. 
Magnetokineticists manipulate the forces 
of magnetism and through it, all forms of 
metal.
Class Skills: A magnetokineticist 
adds Disable Device and Knowledge 
(engineering) to her list of class skills.
Basic Manipulation: A magnetokineticist 
gains basic magnetokinesis.
Basic  M ag Netoki Nesis
Element Lodestone; Type utility (Sp); 
Level 1; Burn 0 
   You can move up to 5 pounds per 
kineticist level of metal, materials 
containing metal, and other similar 
materials up to 15 feet as a move action. 
You can search for the presence of metal 
from a distance as if using the detect metal 
spell.
Simple Blast: A magnetokineticist gains 
metal blast as a simple blast wild talent.
Metal  B last
Element Lodestone; Type simple blast 
(Sp); Level —; Burn 0 
Blast Type: physical; Damage 
bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing 
   You shape metal into fine darts and send 
them flying at a foe.
Defense: A magnetokineticist’s defensive 
wild talent is storm of steel.
stor M oF steel
Element Lodestone; Type defense (Su); 
Level —; Burn 0 
   You are surrounded by a whirlwind of 
metal bits, deflecting most attacks. You 
gain +1 deflection bonus to AC. This AC 
increases by +1 for every 2 kineticist levels 
you possess beyond 2nd. By accepting 
1 point of burn, you can increase the AC 
by +1 until the next time your burn is 
removed, to a maximum AC equal to your 
kineticist level. Whenever you accept burn 
while using a lodestone wild talent, the 
energy surging through you causes any 
adjacent creatures or objects to be subject 
to your metal blast.
   You can dismiss and restore this effect
as an immediate action.
Wild Talents: A magnetokineticist 
qualifies for the following wild talents in 
addition to all those listed as universal:
Infusion: 1st—pushing infusion, 
pulling infusion; 2nd—bowling 
infusion; 3rd—impale, magnetic 
infusion, rare metal infusion; 6th—
flaying infusion; 7th—fragmentation
Utility: 1st—basic magnetokinesis, 
magnetic fury, kinetic cover; 
2nd—steel will; 3rd—metal flesh, 
magnetic control; 4th—steelsight; 
5th—magnetic control (greater), 
metal puppet, shard shield; 7th—
steel deflection; 8th—magnetic 
deflection; 9th—magnetic master
Saturation: Lodestone saturations are 
most common in the heaviest areas of 
combat during a long and protracted 
battle; especially with those involving 
firearms. Such planes are clouded in flying 
bits of sharpened metal and greatly affect 
95
the magnetic energies of the lodestones. 
A magnetokineticist must spend 24 hours 
in the midst of a roiling battle, succeeding 
at a DC 20 Knowledge(engineering) 
check every 4 hours. Small bits of metal 
are drawn into and absorbed by the 
magnetokineticist’s body until they hold 
enough to be able to perform their basic 
blast and defense talent in areas otherwise 
devoid of metals. With each failed save the 
magnetokineticist is struck violently by 
a flying shard of metal and takes 2d10+2 
piercing and bludgeoning damage. At the 
end of the 24 hours, his body is saturated 
in metals, with the warformed wild talent in 
place of one of his 3rd-level or lower utility 
talents. A magnetokineticist can halt this 
attunement at any point without incurring 
negative effects.
War For Med
Element lodestone; Type utility (Su); Level 
3; Burn — 
   Saturating your body with metal, you 
gain DR 3/- and can now perform basic 
lodestone talents in areas otherwise 
devoid of metals.
additional  neW  
talents  and  infusions
MagNetic Fury
Element lodestone; Type utility (Su); Level 
1; Burn — 
    When using metal blasts or composite 
blasts that include metal, add your 
elemental overflow bonus to the damage 
dealt. If the kinetic blast normally adds 
double your elemental overflow bonus to 
damage, these effects stack.
steel Will
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
2; Burn — 
   You draw metal and shape it into a tight 
fitting helm around your skull, blocking 
all but your eyes and a narrow slit for your 
mouth. This shield for your mind protects 
you from the intrusion of prying intellects 
granting you a resistance bonus equal 
to one half your kineticist level on saves 
versus divination and mind-affecting 
spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural 
abilities.
Metal Flesh
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
3; Burn 1 
Prerequisite storm of steel. 
   You painfully push forth jagged chunks of 
metal from your flesh. Until the next time 
your burn is removed, while your storm of 
steel is active, any creature that strikes you 
with an unarmed strike or natural weapon 
or that grapples you takes 1d6 points of 
piercing damage. Weapons that strike you 
also take this damage, though the damage 
is unlikely to penetrate the weapon’s 
hardness.
MagNetic coNtrol
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
3; Burn 0 
   You use your magnetic abilities to move 
yourself, as per flame jet. 
steelsight
Element lodestone; Type utility (Su); Level 
4; Burn 0 
   You can see through metal, earth, and 
stone. This works similarly to greensight 
with a range of 60 feet. 
MagNetic coNtrol, greater
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
5; Burn 0 
Prerequisite magnetic control. 
   You have greater control over magnetism, 
as per greater flame jet.
96
Metal  P uPP et
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
5; Burn 0 
   You can control metal objects, causing 
them to attack your foes. This functions 
as the aether puppet wild talent, except it 
controls metal objects. At 12th level, you 
can grant hardness 5 to Large and larger 
animated objects. 
shard  shield
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
5; Burn 1 
Prerequisite storm of steel. 
   Even larger chunks of jagged metal 
surround you until the next time your burn 
is removed. While your storm of steel talent 
is active, any creature that strikes you with 
a melee attack takes an amount of piercing 
and slashing damage equal to 1/2 your 
kineticist level unless it is using a reach 
weapon. 
Flayi Ng iNF usio N
Element lodestone; Type substance 
infusion(Sp); Level 6; Burn 4 
Associated Blasts metal 
Saving Throw Fortitude partial; see text
   You use the metal in a creature’s blood to 
tear it apart, as per disintegrating infusion.
steel  deFlectio N
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
7; Burn 0 
   You can control metallic chaff to cause 
magical interference, as per spell deflection. 
Mag Netic  deFlectio N
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
8; Burn 0 
   You can deflect your foes’ attacks, as the 
spell deflection with a duration of 1 round. 
You can accept 1 point of burn to increase 
the duration to 1 round per kineticist level 
you possess.
Mag Netic  M aster
Element lodestone; Type utility (Sp); Level 
9; Burn 0 
Prerequisite magnetic control, greater 
magnetic control. 
   You can create areas of altered magnetic 
pull. This functions as reverse gravity, but 
you can choose for the gravity in the area 
to pull toward any direction (not just up). If 
you use this wild talent, any previous use of 
this wild talent expires immediately.
Composite  blasts
Composite Blasts can be found in the 
Appendix on page 245.
97
the  Way
There is something to be learned from a rainstorm. When a shower comes down on you 
suddenly, you may try to run quickly and not get wet. But even dashing from tree to tree 
seeking cover, you still get rained on. When you are at peace and have a strong purpose, no 
storm will vex you, though you will still get soaked.
Awareness returned to Seika in a blink with the dawn. She breathed deeply, another 
day, and with it, another chance at drawing closer to peace. She rose soundlessly, the 
motion catching the eye of the companion on the third watch shift. She checked her 
attire, unruffled. She checked her body, firm and sound. She checked her tools, present 
and without blemish. The fire had burned low, so she set some small sticks precisely 
arranged in the coals, they needed time, and the campfire would be ready for cooking 
before the others awoke. 
They had camped in a pine grove near a small mountain lake so she walked to the 
pebbled beach to perform her morning routine. With slow deliberation, she moved 
through the kata, now as firm as a mountain, now supple like a willow bough. Once 
complete, she knelt and arranged components from her kit. Disassembling her 
firearms, she checked each piece. Having no cause to draw them on the previous day, 
there was no reason to expect anything other than perfection, but complacency kills. 
By now, Seika heard the grumblings of her companions rising from their beds. She 
walked back to camp and began preparing the morning meal. A thick porridge with a 
hint of savory fatback. There was some complaint about this the first time she made it, 
some wanted bacon, others bread. None could argue with the extra miles the hearty 
concoction had added to their morning trek, or the fullness of their uncomplaining 
bellies until the noon meal. Since her simple gruel and rice were the things she could 
add to the meal preparations, they obliged her. 
After breakfast, while her party rubbed the sleep from their eyes and saw to their 
relieving and ablutions, she saw to other often overlooked things about camp. The 
devil is in the details, as they say. She replaced the rocks that had been moved to make 
bedrolls more comfortable, replaced moss scuffed aside by logs being used for seats, 
and scattered loam over the now buried fire; it would remain warm for hours but one 
would have to find it first. Everything in its place.
They set out with the party leader setting the pace. Ever humble, Seika slipped into 
the middle of the pack. All who worked with her knew her value, she had nothing 
to prove. A few hours into the patrol, when some were tempted to contemplate 
their own feet, Seika caught sight of some birds taking flight, and her awareness 
heightened like a floodlight. She tapped the leader and silently communicated a 
signal where all could see, and then leaped soundlessly into the brush to one side. 
A moment later, as the party still tried to identify the threat, the ambush sprang. 
Two lines of weapons fire opened up from either side of the trail ahead, but Seika 
was not in the crossfire. Seika was among them. She slowed her sprint through the 
brush by dropping down and sliding between the akimbo legs of the nearest raider. 
Coming back up smoothly, she disarmed the second man in line. As the first man was 
98
realizing what was happening and went to change targets, Seika gently drew her 
twin pistols and simultaneously blew the brains out of both of the nearest enemies. 
By now, the party had recovered and started returning fire, breaking for cover, and 
tossing grenades. One of the grenades landed a bit too close to Seika. So she leaped 
and rolled out of the way. Realizing they had an enemy in their midst, the raiders 
attempted to surround Seika with close weapons drawn. Seika closed her eyes and 
assumed a placid stance until the first attacker fired a shot. She went from her fully 
erect height to nearly brushing her face on the grass in the blink of an eye, bringing 
one pistol to bear on the first attacker and the other firing at a different raider. Her 
front leg was sticking straight out in front of her, then she smoothly pivoted into a 
kneeling position near the side of the enemy’s ring. She reached behind her, grabbed 
a raider by the neck with her forearm, and launched him bodily over her shoulder. 
Following this with a speedy kick to send him along, before shooting him with both 
pistols. Amid the confusion, she had time to carefully place her next few shots. Seika 
stood firm, taking aim to bring down the rest. 
After the last shot was fired, she reloaded both weapons and breathing deeply, 
regained her center. She then holstered the pistols and walked back to the party. They 
were discussing the next steps and arguing about the conflicting trail sign left by 
the raiders. One thought to follow the broken foliage to the west, another the boot 
prints to the northeast. After a pause in the discussion, Seika pointed out the reddish 
mud on the raider’s boots and the bluish tinting from local berries on their fingertips; 
their tracker knew those were found near the streambed to the northwest. The age 
of the mud and tinting suggested they had been camping near there recently and 
for some time. A couple of her companions looked at her in shock with open mouths, 
perhaps waiting to see if she would gloat, then made preparations to circle around the 
streambed area from an unexpected location. Seika thought if they had any discipline, 
these enemies would post guards in all directions, not just those from which they 
expected an attack. It was fortunate they had not followed the broken foliage, as they 
discovered a trip-wire detonated grenade planted in that direction. 
After traversing the woods for several more hours, they came to a camp near the 
streambed. The careless raiders had not posted lookouts on the far side of their 
encampment, and Seika’s brow furrowed at the shame of it. The thieves had erected 
a small palisade, likely as a defense against hostile wildlife more than a protection 
against attacks. Until Savage Company took up the contract on these raiders, they 
likely had no opposition in these dense woodlands. Unlike Seika, the rest of her party 
did not want to try and jump or climb over the palisade, so they moved back out of 
earshot and spent the time until nightfall to craft ladders. They crept close to the wall 
after dark, waiting until the evening festivities, and most of the fires died down. The 
majority of her team could see in the dark, and that made the night their time to shine. 
Rising smoothly, they set their ladders, and one by one climbed and vaulted the wall. 
Seika gave a single silent leap and passed cleanly over the pointed palisade tops and 
slid smoothly down the far side. No alarms raised so far. No people anywhere in sight, 
actually. Seika felt an unease creep into her.
Striding noiselessly forward to gaze into the torchlit circle at the center of the 
encampment, Seika saw not a single person. As her team creeped to the edge of the 
light, there came a deep laugh from the far side of the clearing. There was a ripping 
99
sound, and the biggest tent across the camp rose up, tore, and fell away to reveal a 
massive creature. He must have been using some kind of enlarging magic because no 
half-orc Seika had ever seen measured anywhere close to this beast’s 17-foot height. 
He had one milky eye, was bare to the waist, and every visible inch of him was covered 
in the dots, lines, and swirls of raised ritual scarring. One hand dragged some kind of 
cleaver bigger than a goat-cart, while the other hand was wrapped to the elbow in 
leather straps and enlarged spiked wire. 
The ambient light had grown. The enemy must have lit the logs of the palisade on 
fire while her team was distracted by this behemoth’s entrance. No doubt they were 
set up to fire down into the camp should it be necessary as well. “So be it. ” Seika said 
aloud as she calmed her mind. If this was the day of her death, perhaps she might 
find some measure of perfection in the trial of battle. She shrugged out of the robe 
over her shoulders and drew her pistols. She strode into the makeshift arena bare to 
the waist herself but for her chest wrap. She planted her feet and raised her weapons 
in a challenge; her mouth a hard line, and her eyes burning cold from her furrowed 
brow. She resolved herself that if she was to be killed by this creature, she would 
make him work for it. He bellowed as he swung the cleaver overhanded, Seika turned 
her shoulders and let it fall past her a hair’s breadth away. She focused her ki into 
each bullet and fired away, closing the gap to reduce his reach advantage. He tried a 
grab with the gauntleted hand, but Seika turned it away. She attempted to trip the 
brute, but he recovered without going down. On and on they fought, trading blows, 
stepping in, dodging back, her reloading, him heaving gallons of air. The rest of the 
camp was fighting too as the tents caught fire. Bullets whizzed through the air as men 
on both sides screamed and died. 
And then something miraculous happened. Not an opening, or a chance to win. 
Not a slip that would cause a failure on one side or the other. No, this miracle was in 
the matching of these two foes. In the balance of brute strength with honed reflexes, 
in precise striking and wild swings. Seika saw the world anew at that moment. She 
understood what she sought was not perfection, for surely, perfection was the 
opposite of this. She saw what she truly sought was balance. And at that moment she 
knew; whatever happened she had won her goal, she could not ask for a better day to 
die. 
There are tens of thousands of students who have studied meditation and obtained 
its rewards. Do not doubt the possibilities because of the simplicity of the method. If you 
cannot find the truth right where you are, where else do you expect to find it?
100
zen  gunman   
monk  arChetype
Some monks seek to become one with 
another weapon entirely—the gun. The 
zen gunman takes a weapon most other 
monks eschew and seeks perfection in 
the pull of a taut trigger, the flex of a gun’s 
stock, and the flight of a bullet fired true. 
While these scions of firepower are still 
dangerous in hand-to-hand fighting, their 
true mastery shines through in their use 
of firearms. They master feats of skill that 
seem wholly unnatural.
Role: Zen Gunmen may not be massive 
damage dealers like some powerhouse 
classes, but their abilities and choice of 
weapon means they are always on target 
when it comes to delivering many accurate 
hits. Even though they are unarmored they 
excel at avoiding hits and damage. Zen 
gunmen can focus their energies to avoid 
misses and heighten their damage output 
and accuracy.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: Zen 
gunmen are proficient with firearms (but 
not firearms with the automatic or scatter 
property) as well as the normal brass 
knuckles, cestus, club, crossbow (light or 
heavy), dagger, handaxe, javelin, kama, 
nunchaku, quarterstaff, sai, shortspear, 
short sword, shuriken, siangham, sling, 
spear and temple sword.
This alters weapon and armor 
proficiency.
Flurry of Blows (Ex): Starting at 1st 
level, a zen gunman can make a flurry of 
blows as a full-attack action, but only when 
using a firearm (even though it is a ranged 
weapon). She may not make a flurry of 
blows with her unarmed attacks or any 
other weapons. A zen gunman does not 
apply her Strength bonus on damage rolls 
made with flurry of blows. A zen gunman’s 
flurry of blows otherwise functions as 
normal for a monk of her level.
A zen gunman cannot use Rapid Shot 
when making a flurry of blows with her 
firearm.
This alters flurry of blows.
Bonus Feats: A zen gunman’s bonus 
feats must be taken from the following list: 
Combat Reflexes, Deflect Arrows, Dodge, 
Far Shot, Point Blank Shot, Precise Shot, 
and Rapid Shot.
At 6th level, the following feats are added 
to the list: Smart Shot, Improved Precise 
Shot, Rapid Reload, Mobility, and Parting 
Shot.
At 10th level, the following feats are 
added to the list: Improved Critical, 
Pinpoint Targeting, Shot on the Run, and 
Snatch Arrows.
A zen gunman need not have any of the 
prerequisites normally required for these 
feats to select them.
These feats replace the monk’s normal 
bonus feats.
Perfect Strike (Ex): At 1st level, a zen 
gunman gains Perfect Strike as a bonus 
feat, even if she does not meet the 
prerequisites. A zen gunman can use 
Perfect Strike with any firearm. At 10th 
level, the zen gunman can roll her attack 
roll three times and take the highest result. 
If one of these rolls is a critical threat, the 
zen gunman must choose one of her other 
two rolls to use as her confirmation roll. 
This ability replaces stunning fist.
Way of the Gun (Ex): At 2nd level, a zen 
gunman gains Weapon Focus as a bonus 
feat with one type of firearm.
101
At 6th level, the zen gunman gains 
Weapon Specialization with the same 
weapon as a bonus feat, even if she does 
not meet the prerequisites.
This ability replaces evasion.
Zen Gun Mastery (Ex): At 3rd level, a 
zen gunman may use her Wisdom modifier 
instead of her Dexterity modifier on ranged 
attack rolls when using a firearm.
This ability replaces maneuver training.
Point Blank Master (Ex): At 3rd level, a 
zen gunman gains Point Blank Master as a 
bonus feat, even if she does not meet the 
prerequisites.
This ability replaces still mind.
Ki Pool (Su): At 4th level, in addition to 
the normal abilities of her ki pool, a zen 
gunman may spend 1 point from her ki 
pool to increase the range increment for 
her firearm by 50 feet for 1 round.
This alters ki pool.
Ki Bullets (Su): At 5th level, a zen 
gunman may spend 1 point from her 
ki pool as a swift action to change the 
damage dice of bullets she shoots to that 
of her unarmed strikes. This lasts until 
the start of her next turn. For example, 
a Medium zen gunman’s pistol normally 
deals 1d6 damage; using this ability, her 
bullets deal 1d8 damage until the start of 
her next turn.
This ability replaces purity of body.
Reflexive Shot (Ex): At 9th level, a zen 
gunman can make attacks of opportunity 
with bullets from her firearm. The zen 
gunman still threatens squares she could 
reach with unarmed strikes, and can still 
only make one attack of opportunity per 
round (unless she has Combat Reflexes).
This ability replaces improved evasion.
Trick Shot (Su): At 11th level, a zen 
gunman may hit targets that she might 
otherwise miss. By spending 1 point 
from her ki pool as a swift action, the 
zen gunman can ignore concealment. By 
spending 2 points, she can ignore total 
concealment or cover. By spending 3 
points, she can ignore total cover, even 
firing bullets around corners. The bullet 
must still be able to reach the target; 
a target inside a closed building with 
no open doors or windows cannot be 
attacked. These effects last for 1 round.
This ability replaces diamond body.
Ki Focus Firearm (Su): At 17th level, as 
long as she has at least 1 point of ki in her 
ki pool, a zen gunman may treat bullets 
fired from her firearm as if they were ki 
focus weapons, allowing her to use her 
special ki attacks as if her bullets were 
unarmed attacks.
This ability replaces tongue of the sun 
and moon.
steel  saint  paladin  
arChetype
The enemies of the steel saint find divine 
justice at the end of the barrel of a gun. 
Not focusing on a single target, the Steel 
Saint can bring the power of the smite to 
enemies in an area and can even call upon 
divine power to clear misfires. 
Proficiencies: The steel saint is proficient 
with simple weapons, with light and one-
handed firearms, with all types of armor 
(heavy, medium, and light), but not shields. 
   This alters the paladin’s weapon and 
armor proficiencies.
Smite Aura (Su): Once per day, a steel 
saint can call out to the powers of good to 
aid in her struggle against evil. As a swift 
102
action, the steel saint activates a 30 ft smite 
aura, the steel saint adds her Cha bonus (if 
any) to her attack rolls and adds her steel 
saint level to all damage rolls made against 
evil creatures within the aura. The bonus 
to damage on the first successful attack is 
increased to 2 points per steel saint level 
if the target is an evil outsider, evil-aligned 
dragon, or undead creature. Regardless 
of the target, the steel saint’s attacks 
automatically bypass any DR of creatures in 
the aura.
In addition, while the smite aura is in 
effect, the steel saint gains a deflection 
bonus to AC equal to her Charisma 
modifier (if any) against attacks made by 
evil creatures within the aura.
The smite aura remains in effect for a 
number of rounds equal to the steel saint’s 
Charisma modifier. At 4th level, and at 
every three levels thereafter, the steel saint 
may use smite aura one additional time per 
day, to a maximum of seven times per day 
at 19th level.
This replaces the paladin’s smite evil class 
feature.
Mercy (Su): The steel saint adds the 
following mercy to the list of those 
available at 3rd level:
Merciful Clear (Su): the steel saint’s lay 
on hands removes the broken condition 
from a single firearm the target is currently 
wielding, as long as that condition was 
gained by a firearm misfire.
This alters the paladin’s mercy class 
feature.
Divine Bond (Su): At 5th level, a steel 
saint forms a bond with his deity. This 
functions as the paladin’s divine bond 
ability, except the bond must always take 
the form of a firearm. If the steel saint 
chooses to wield two identical firearms for 
the purpose of two-weapon fighting she 
treats them as one weapon for the purpose 
of divine bond. The firearm chosen by a 
steel saint for her divine bond does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity when firing 
while threatened. In addition to the listed 
abilities, a steel saint can add the distance, 
reliable, or seeking special abilities to her 
weapon, but she cannot add the defending 
or disruption special abilities.
This ability replaces the standard 
paladin’s divine bond.
roughne Ck ranger  
arChetype
These stalwart rangers venture far 
into inhospitable territories, implacably 
stalking their foes and using cunning 
methods to waylay them. A master of 
mundane traps and heavily reliant on 
their animal companions, these dauntless 
expeditionaries are vicious guerrilla 
fighters and just as suitable for solo 
operations as they are on a team.
Class Skills: A roughneck ranger adds 
Disable Device and Craft (alchemy) to his 
list of class skills.
This alters the ranger’s class skills. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A 
roughneck ranger is proficient with all 
simple and martial weapons, all firearms, 
and with light and medium armor.
This alters the ranger’s weapon and 
armor proficiency. 
Alchemical Aptitude: A roughneck 
ranger has studied how to support 
himself in enemy territory and can supply 
himself with equipment, he adds 1/2 his 
roughneck ranger level on Craft (alchemy) 
checks made to create adventuring gear, 
equipment, or explosives.
This replaces Wild Empathy.
103
Companion’s Bond: Due to the danger 
and distances involved in their work, 
and the fact that they often work alone; 
a roughneck ranger always chooses an 
animal companion as his bond.
This alters Hunter’s Bond. 
Trapfinding: A roughneck ranger 
adds 1/2 his roughneck ranger level on 
Perception skill checks made to locate 
traps and on Disable Device skill checks 
(minimum +1). A roughneck ranger can 
use Disable Device to disarm magic traps. 
Traps (Ex): At 5th level, a roughneck 
ranger learns how to create a grenade trap, 
tripwire trap, and one other roughneck 
ranger trap of his choice. The roughneck 
ranger can use these traps a total number 
of times per day equal to 1/2 his roughneck 
ranger level + his Wisdom modifier. These 
traps function identically to the Trapper 
Ranger archetype, but can only be made 
as the Extraordinary(Ex) variety, the 
roughneck ranger does not have access to 
Supernatural(Su) traps.  
Setting a trap is a full-round action that 
provokes attacks of opportunity. A trap 
fills a single 5-foot square, and cannot 
be placed in the same area as another 
roughneck ranger trap or a magical trap 
such as a glyph of warding. The roughneck 
ranger only needs simple materials to 
create the trap, such as a piece of cloth, a 
small amount of metal (such as a dagger, 
iron spike, or a few nails), a foot of rope 
or vine, and so on. The DCs for Perception 
checks to notice the trap, Disable Device 
checks to disable it, and for saving 
throws to avoid it are equal to 10 + 1/2 
the character’s level + the character’s 
Wisdom bonus. All ranger traps are Trigger: 
location, and Reset: none. A roughneck 
ranger’s traps do not suffer the normal -2 
DC penalty to Ex type traps. 
At 7th level and every two levels 
thereafter, he learns another trap. Once 
a trap is learned, it can’t be unlearned 
and replaced with a different type of trap. 
The roughneck ranger cannot select an 
individual trap more than once.
Demolition Bomb (Ex): At 10th level 
the roughneck gains the demolition 
bomb ability as per the alchemical 
sapper alchemist archetype, treating his 
roughneck ranger level as his alchemist 
level to calculate damage.
These abilities replace the ranger’s spells 
class feature. Roughneck rangers do not 
gain any spells or spellcasting ability, do 
not have a caster level, and cannot use spell 
trigger and spell completion magic items.
roughne Ck ranger  traps
Roughneck rangers are often on 
missions unsupported deep within hostile 
territories, their use of these clever traps, 
combined with a solid strategy, can help 
them overcome impossible odds. 
 
Other characters can learn how to set these 
traps by taking the Learn Ranger Trap feat 
or by having the trapper ranger archetype.
Setting a trap is a full-round action that 
provokes attacks of opportunity. A trap 
fills a single 5-foot square, and cannot be 
placed in the same area as another ranger 
trap or a magical trap such as a glyph of 

104
warding. The roughneck ranger only needs 
simple materials to create the trap, such as 
a piece of cloth, a small amount of metal 
(such as a dagger, an iron spike, or a few 
nails), a foot of rope or vine, and so on. 
The DCs for Perception checks to notice 
the trap, Disable Device checks to disable 
it, and for saving throws to avoid it are 
equal to 10 + 1/2 the character’s level + the 
character’s Wisdom bonus. All roughneck 
ranger traps are Trigger: location, and 
Reset: none.
Roughneck ranger traps are all 
extraordinary. Unlike other classes, the 
roughneck ranger does not take a -2 
penalty to the trap DC when placing 
extraordinary traps. Extraordinary traps are 
Type: mechanical. Some of the traps listed 
in other books may be set as extraordinary 
traps or as magical (supernatural) traps; 
a roughneck ranger must set it as an 
extraordinary trap. An extraordinary 
trap lasts 1 day per ranger level or until 
it is triggered, whichever comes first. 
Traps marked with an asterisk (*) add to 
or modify the effects of another trap; a 
roughneck ranger can add one of these 
trap types to any standard roughneck 
ranger trap (this costs 1 additional use of 
the trap ability).
acid  tra P*
This target is splattered with acid, taking 
a number of points of acid damage equal 
to 1d6 + 1/2 the roughneck ranger’s level 
to the triggering creature (Reflex negates). 
The roughneck ranger must supply a dose 
of acid when setting the trap.
alar M tra P* 
When this trap is triggered, it creates a 
momentary loud noise equivalent to the 
audible alarm version of alarm.
Blight  tra P
This trap stains the victim with blighted 
plant matter, increasing its susceptibility 
to the attacks of creatures created or 
enthralled by the affliction. The target 
takes a –2 penalty to Armor Class 
against the attacks of creatures closely 
affiliated with the specific blight (typically 
demons, fey, plants, or undead) and on 
saving throws against effects created 
by such creatures. This effect lasts for 10 
minutes per roughneck ranger level. A 
successful Will save negates this effect. The 
roughneck ranger must supply a sample of 
the specific blight when setting this trap.
Bur NiNg tra P*
A roughneck ranger can only add this 
to a fire or grenade trap. If the triggering 
creature fails its Reflex save, it catches on 
fire, taking 1d6 points of fire damage at the 
start of its turn for 1d4 rounds. The burning 
creature can attempt a new save as a full-
round action. Dropping and rolling on the 
ground grants a +4 bonus on this save.
Blight Bur N tra P*
This trap strikes the target with a small 
shard of blightburn, dealing 2d6 points of 
fire damage, 1d3 points of Constitution 
damage, and 1d3 points of Charisma 
damage. A successful Fortitude save 
negates the ability damage and halves the 
fire damage. The roughneck ranger must 
supply a sliver of blightburn, a dangerous 
task in itself, though storing the blightburn 
in a lead vial makes the task less risky.
Bludgeo NiNg tra P
The trap bludgeons the creature that 
triggers it. The trap makes an attack with 
a bonus equal to the roughneck ranger’s 
character level + his Wisdom bonus. The 
triggering creature is denied its Dexterity 
bonus to AC if it was unaware of the 
trap. If the trap hits, it deals 1d6 points of 
105
bludgeoning damage for every 4 levels the 
roughneck ranger possesses (minimum 
1d6). The roughneck ranger must provide 
an object suitable for dealing lethal 
bludgeoning damage, such as a large 
branch or heavy stone.
cha NN eled  eNergy  tra P*
This trap creates a positive or negative 
energy effect designed to harm either 
undead or living creatures, respectively. 
The target takes a number of points of 
damage equal to 1d8 + the roughneck 
ranger’s level from either positive energy 
or negative energy (Will save for half). 
The roughneck ranger must supply a vial 
of holy water (positive energy) or unholy 
water (negative energy).
clea Nsi Ng tra P
The trap suppresses the target’s ability 
to use one randomly selected attack, 
ability, or quality that creates a disease 
or poison effect; this lasts for 1 round per 
ranger level. If the creature has more than 
one such attack, ability, or quality that 
creates a disease or poison effect, the 
attack, ability, or quality to be suppressed 
when the creature is affected by this trap 
is determined at random from those not 
already suppressed. The roughneck ranger 
must supply a small amount of holy water, 
incense, or herbal sage to create this trap. 
duMM y tra P
The trap creates a humanoid dummy 
that springs up and appears to move 
away from the triggering creature or that 
follows a single direction determined by 
the roughneck ranger at the time when the 
trap is set.
 The dummy can be placed up to 60 
feet away from the triggering creature, 
and then moves towards the direction 
specified, if any. The dummy can move up 
to 60 feet per round. A viewer can attempt 
a Perception check to identify the dummy 
if she attacks it or otherwise interacts 
with it. The DC of the Perception check to 
identify the dummy is equal to 5 + the DC 
to avoid the trap.
dirt y  trick  tra P*
If the triggering creature fails its saving 
throw against the trap or is struck by the 
trap’s attack, the trap also attempts a 
dirty trick combat maneuver against the 
triggering creature. The type of dirty trick 
is chosen when the trap is created, and if 
it isn’t possible or isn’t applicable to the 
triggering creature, the combat maneuver 
is wasted. The trap’s CMB for the dirty trick 
is equal to the roughneck ranger’s level + 
his Wisdom modifier.
distractio N tra P*
The target is affected with irritation that 
detracts from its alertness. It takes a –2 
penalty on Perception checks, initiative 
checks, and Reflex saves for 10 minutes per 
roughneck ranger level. The roughneck 
ranger must supply a dose of itching 
powder or another alchemical irritant.
exPlodi Ng tra P*
Restrictions: Can only be added to a fire 
or grenade trap. 
   The trap explodes in fire, filling all squares 
adjacent to the trap and dealing a number 
of points of fire damage equal to 1d6 + 
1/2 the roughneck ranger’s level (Reflex 
negates). The roughneck ranger must use 
an explosive material such as alchemist’s 
fire when setting the trap.
Fire  tra P
The trap explodes in flames, dealing a 
number of points of fire damage equal 
to 1d6 + 1/2 the ranger’s level to the 
triggering creature (Reflex negates). The 
roughneck ranger must use an explosive 
material such as alchemist’s fire when 
setting the trap.
106
Fire Work  tra P*
Restrictions: Can only be added to a fire, 
smoke, or grenade trap. 
   The trap explodes in a flash of colored 
lights. 
   All creatures within 10 feet must succeed 
at a Fortitude saving throw or be blinded 
for 1d4+1 rounds. The roughneck ranger 
must use an alchemical weapon when 
setting the trap, such as flash powder or a 
firework.
Freezi Ng tra P
The trap creates a burst of ice that 
damages and encases the triggering 
creature. The creature takes 1d3 points 
of cold damage + 1/4 the ranger’s level 
and is entangled and stuck to the ground, 
similar to the effect of a tanglefoot bag. A 
successful Reflex save halves the damage 
and means the creature is not stuck to 
the floor by the ice. The ice is 1 inch thick 
per 2 Hit Dice of the ranger (minimum 1), 
has hardness 0 and 3 hit points per inch 
of thickness, and melts in 2d4 rounds. The 
roughneck ranger must supply a dose of 
alchemical quick freezing oil to create this 
trap. 
gre Nade  tra P
The trap triggers a grenade that is 
installed in the trap when it is created. 
If the selected grenade deals damage, a 
successful Reflex save halves the damage. 
The roughneck ranger must use a grenade 
to set the trap, however, he can disable 
the trap any time before it expires or is 
triggered and retrieve the grenade for 
future use.
iNF ected  sNare  tra P*
Restrictions: Can only be added to a 
snare trap.  
   The snare is made of diseased materials, 
which contain an aggressive blight that 
saps the energy and bodily health from the 
target creature. When initially caught in the 
snare, the trapped creature must succeed 
at a Fortitude saving throw or immediately 
take 2 points of Constitution damage. 
Each subsequent hour, the creature must 
succeed at a Fortitude saving throw or 
take 2 points of Constitution damage. 
This effect lasts for 12 hours or until the 
creature makes two successful saving 
throws in a row, whichever comes first. This 
is a poison effect.
lazurite  tra P
Lazurite radiation increases the victim’s 
susceptibility to the attacks of undead 
creatures that are bolstered by the 
radiation. The target takes a –2 penalty to 
Armor Class against the attacks of undead 
creatures and on saving throws against 
effects created by undead. This effect lasts 
for 10 minutes per roughneck ranger level. 
A successful Will save negates this effect. 
The roughneck ranger must supply a sliver 
of lazurite.
liMN iNg tra P
This trap sprays glowing dust into the 
trapped square and all adjacent squares. 
A creature covered in this dust glows 
like a candle (becoming visibly outlined 
if invisible) and takes a -20 penalty on 
Stealth checks. The dust’s effects last for 1 
round per roughneck ranger level or until 
the creature washes it off (a move action 
requiring water or some other cleanser). 
The roughneck ranger must use alchemical 
components when setting the trap, such as 
glowing ink or marker dye.
MarkiNg traP*
If the triggering creature fails its save 
against the trap, it is marked with a dye and/
or scent of the roughneck ranger’s choosing. 
A scent mark decreases the DC of tracking 
the marked creature by scent by 4. The mark 
can be washed off with vigorous scrubbing, 
but fades on its own over several days.
107
oversized  B ar Bs*
The target is speared with barbs 
that penetrate and protrude from its 
body, making squeezing, climbing, and 
swimming challenging. The trap implants 
1d4+1 barbs, each dealing 1 point of 
damage. A successful Reflex save halves 
the number of barbs. The target takes a 
penalty on Climb checks and Swim checks 
equal to the number of barbs attached, 
and is considered one size category larger 
for the purposes of determining what size 
of opening or passageway it must squeeze 
through as long as at least 1 barb remains 
attached. Each barb can be removed with 
a full minute of work and a Heal check 
that equals or exceeds the trap’s DC. If this 
check fails, the barb is still removed but the 
target takes 1d4 points of damage. 
The barbs shake loose harmlessly after 10 
minutes per roughneck ranger level.
PeNetrati Ng tra P*
Restrictions: Can only be added to a 
wounding trap. 
   The damage die of a penetrating 
trap increases to 1d8. Choose either 
adamantine, cold iron, or silver. The trap 
counts as that material for the purposes 
of overcoming damage reduction. The 
roughneck ranger must provide 1 pound 
of the chosen material during the trap’s 
construction.
Pit  tra P
This simple pit is covered over with 
leaves or appropriate materials for the 
area. It’s 5 feet deep plus 5 feet for every 
4 roughneck ranger levels. A victim that 
succeeds at a Reflex save doesn’t fall into 
the pit. The roughneck ranger can quickly 
set this trap only in terrain with soft 
ground, harder ground must be excavated 
before a pit trap can be placed.  
Poiso N tra P
The trap poisons the creature that 
triggers it. The roughneck ranger must 
provide 1 dose of contact, inhaled, or injury 
poison when setting the trap, and the trap 
uses that poison’s effects and DC.
rust  M oNster  tra P
The trap throws up a cloud of dust 
ground from the antennae of a rust 
monster, dealing 1d4 points of damage 
to the target’s metal armor and weapons. 
A roughneck ranger may increase the 
damage by 1 point for each additional 
daily use of his trap ability he spends when 
creating this trap. A successful Reflex save 
negates this damage. The roughneck 
ranger must supply a set of rust monster 
antennae.
sMoke  tra P
This trap bellows out thick, choking 
smoke that fills the trapped square and all 
adjacent squares. Any breathing creature in 
these squares must succeed at a Fortitude 
saving throws or take a -4 penalty to 
Strength and Dexterity every round it’s 
within the smoke and for 1d4+1 rounds 
after leaving the smoke. All sight, even 
darkvision, is ineffective in or through the 
smoke. The smoke lasts for 1 round per 2 
roughneck ranger levels, and is dispersed 
by wind as fog cloud. The roughneck ranger 
must use an alchemical component when 
setting the trap, such as a smokestick, or a 
gas or smoke grenade.
sNare  tra P
The trap constricts around a limb or 
other part of the triggering creature’s 
body (Reflex avoids). The creature cannot 
move from the location of the trap, unless 
the roughneck ranger included a “leash” 
when setting the trap, in which case the 
creature is limited to the length of the 
leash. The trapped creature can escape 
108
with an Escape Artist check (DC equal to 
the trap’s DC) as a full-round action. The 
trap or its leash has a number of hit points 
equal to 1/2 the roughneck ranger’s level, 
or can be burst as a full-round action with 
a DC 25 Strength check. The trap can hold 
up to a Medium creature; each extra daily 
use of the ranger’s trap ability spent when 
the trap is set increases the maximum 
size of creature the trap can hold. At the 
ranger’s option, if there is a tall object or 
structure nearby, he can have the trap lift 
the creature.
sWar M tra P
The trap releases a bat swarm, rat swarm, 
or spider swarm that attacks all creatures 
in the area. The swarm remains in the 
general area for no longer than 1 round 
per ranger level, after which it disperses. 
The roughneck ranger must provide the 
creatures of the swarm (typically in a 
small box, cage, or crate); these creatures 
may die of starvation before the trap is 
triggered (a roughneck ranger trap lasts 1 
day per level).
tar  tra P
The target is coated in a thin layer of 
sticky tar unless it succeeds at a Reflex save. 
It is entangled, and becomes susceptible to 
catching fire from any source of flame. If lit 
on fire, the tar burns intensely for 1 round; 
it deals 2d6 points of fire damage and is 
destroyed in the process. 
Unless burned away, the tar remains for 
1 round per roughneck ranger level. The 
roughneck ranger must supply a dose of 
tar.
toxic  F uMes  tra P*
Restrictions: Can only be added to a 
smoke trap.  
   The smoke this trap creates is extremely 
noxious. Any breathing creature must 
succeed at a Fortitude saving throw (in 
addition to the Fortitude save for the 
smoke trap) or be nauseated every round 
it’s within the smoke and for 1d4+1 rounds 
after leaving the smoke. The roughneck 
ranger must use a toxic material when 
setting the trap, such as noxious aromatic 
or gas grenade.
tri PW ire
A taut wire stretched between two 
vertical surfaces knocks the target prone 
unless it succeeds at a Reflex save. A 
running or charging creature takes a –6 
penalty on its save.
Wou Ndi Ng tra P
This trap makes a melee attack against 
the target using the roughneck ranger’s 
base attack bonus + his Wisdom modifier 
for the attack roll. It deals an amount of 
damage equal to 1d6 + 1/2 the ranger’s 
level. The roughneck ranger chooses 
whether this damage is bludgeoning, 
piercing, or slashing.
War  orphan   
sor Cerer  bloodline
Sorcerers with the war orphan bloodline 
literally have warfare in their blood. 
Whether they themselves or a member of 
their family, somewhere war has had such 
a profound effect on the sorcerer’s life 
that it left an indelible mark. Their power 
is born of battle and the scars it leaves 
behind. These scars develop their powers 
in ways that aid them in casting during 
battle and strengthening the mind.
 
Class Skill: Survival.  
 
Bonus Spells: stone shield (3rd), iron skin  
(5th), rage (7th), wall of fire (9th), cloudkill  
(11th), wall of pikes (13th), delayed blast 
fireball (15th), iron body (17th), meteor 
swarm (19th). 
109
   Bonus Feats: Diehard, Endurance, 
Toughness, Combat Casting, Spell 
Penetration, Defensive combat training, 
Improved Initiative, Quicken Spell. 
 
   Bloodline Arcana: You gain ½ sorcerer 
level (min 1) as a deflection bonus to AC. 
This ability only functions when the war 
orphan is unarmored.
 
   Bloodline Powers: Raised on the 
hardened battlefield the War Orphan learns 
to be self reliant, cautious, and alert. Magic 
is strength, the body endures, and the will 
sharpens. 
Decisive Celerity (Ex): At 1st level, when 
an enemy creature moves into an adjacent 
square, as an immediate action you may 
move a distance equal to your movement 
speed without provoking attacks of 
opportunity. You can use this ability a 
number of times per day equal to your 
Charisma modifier, minimum 1.
Penetrating Determination (Ex): 
At 3rd level, you gain a +4 bonus on 
concentration checks and caster level 
checks to overcome SR. At 9th level this 
bonus increases to +6.
Stubborn Fortitude (Ex): At 9th level, 
you gain a +2 inherent bonus to your 
Constitution. This bonus increases to +4 at 
13th level, and to +6 at 17th level.
Cunning Manipulation (Su): At 15th 
level, you develop incorporeal hands that 
may be used to deliver touch attacks like 
spectral hand for touch spells of any level, 
these hands are invisible, have no hit 
points, and cannot be targeted. In addition 
they can be used like a constant mage 
hand and flawlessly perform any somatic 
spell components if desired. 
Overpowering Will (Su): At 20th level, 
the war orphan’s mastery of the arcane 
reaches its zenith, his mind opens and he 
eschews all outward manifestations of 
casting. He no longer needs to perform 
verbal components of spells, all spellcraft 
checks to identify the spell he is casting 
automatically fail, and he automatically 
succeeds at all concentration checks. He 
also gains DR 5/- and Blindsight 90 ft.
phantom  Warrior  
spiritualist  arChetype
When a phantom chooses a host, 
sometimes the bond unlocks in the host not 
psychic power, but fighting prowess. These 
Phantom Warriors are a little understood 
subset of spiritualists, wading into battle 
ignoring both physical and mental attacks, 
fighting side-by-side or melded with their 
phantom; a phantom that is invariably more 
combat oriented than other spirits. The 
powerful duo work in harmony to wreak 
havoc in strange and effective ways. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: The 
phantom warrior is proficient in simple and 
martial weapons. He is proficient with light 
and medium armor but not shields. 
This modifies weapon and armor 
proficiency.
Resolute Phantom: The phantom warrior 
must choose the new resolute emotional 
focus for their phantom. In addition, the 
phantom warrior’s phantom is modified in 
the following manner:
 
   The phantom’s Base Attack Bonus is equal 
to the phantom warrior’s class level. 
At 3rd level instead of deliver touch spells 
the phantom gains the ability to deliver 
an attack for the host. The phantom can 
deliver an attack for the phantom warrior 
110
when fully manifested in incorporeal or 
ectoplasmic form. The phantom warrior 
and the phantom need not be in contact 
to accomplish this, but the phantom must 
be within 30 feet and the phantom warrior 
must be able to see the phantom. The 
phantom warrior uses an attack action and 
the phantom can deliver the attack as a free 
action. The Phantom must be able to attack 
and uses its attack bonus and slam damage.
When the phantom warrior reaches 12th 
level, the phantom can deliver an attack 
when within 50 feet of the spiritualist.  
This alters Phantom.
Dual Tether: The phantom warrior 
and his phantom may share hit points 
between each other freely. Each hit point 
sacrificed by the phantom warrior or his 
phantom restores 1 point of damage 
that has been dealt to the other. This can 
prevent the phantom from being sent 
back to the Ethereal Plane or prevent the 
phantom warrior from dying or becoming 
unconscious.
This modifies Etheric Tether.
Weapon Training: Starting at 5th level 
the phantom warrior gains weapon training 
as the fighter class feature.
Every four levels thereafter (9th, 13th, and 
17th), a phantom warrior becomes further 
trained in another group of weapons. He 
gains a +1 bonus on attack and damage 
rolls when using a weapon from this 
group. In addition, the bonuses granted 
by previous weapon groups increase by 
+1 each. For example, when a phantom 
warrior reaches 9th level, he receives a +1 
bonus on attack and damage rolls with one 
weapon group and a +2 bonus on attack 
and damage rolls with the weapon group 
selected at 5th level. Bonuses granted from 
overlapping groups do not stack. Take the 
highest bonus granted for a weapon if it 
resides in two or more groups.
This replaces the spiritualist Spell Casting 
ability, a phantom warrior does not gain any 
spells or spellcasting abilities, does not have 
a caster level, and cannot use spell trigger or 
spell completion magic items.
Potent Phantom (Su): At 20th level, 
the spiritualist’s phantom grows ever 
more complex and sophisticated in its 
manifestation. The phantom gains a second 
emotional focus. This does not change the 
phantom’s saving throws, but the phantom 
otherwise grants all the skills and powers of 
the focus.
This replaces Empowered Consciousness.
resolute phantom
Resolute emotional focus: A phantom 
with this focus is so resolved to its ultimate 
fate that it is beyond concern even that it 
has died. It continues to perform its duty 
and will steadfastly serve its master with 
honor. Resolute phantoms often take 
the form of armored warriors, sometimes 
wearing terrifying masks and wielding 
powerful weapons. They are generally stoic 
in demeanor but ruthless in battle.
Skills: The phantom gains a number of 
ranks in Intimidate and Craft (armor) equal 
to its number of Hit Dice. While confined 
in the spiritualist’s consciousness, the 
phantom grants the spiritualist Skill Focus in 
each of these skills.
Good Saves: Fortitude and Will.
Strength Focus: The phantom gains a 
+2 bonus to Strength and a –2 penalty to 
Dexterity. Instead of the phantom gaining 
a bonus to Dexterity as the spiritualist gains 
levels, a resolute-focused phantom gains a 
bonus to Strength instead.
111
Resolute Weapon (Su): The phantom 
deals 1d10 slashing damage on a slam and 
threatens a critical hit on a roll of 18–20. 
When the spiritualist reaches 13th level the 
phantom’s base damage increases to 2d8. 
This damage is instead of the slam damage 
listed on Table: Manifested Phantom’s Base 
Statistics and not in addition to the listed 
damage. The phantom is otherwise still 
treated as having two natural weapon slam 
attacks. 
Resolute Aura (Su): When the spiritualist 
reaches 7th level, as a swift action, the 
phantom can emit a 10-foot radius aura 
that grants its nearby allies resolve. Allies 
within the aura that are under the effect 
of a mind-affecting effect can use the 
phantom’s will save bonus in place of their 
own and roll a saving throw against the 
effect’s DC. The phantom can use this ability 
in either ectoplasmic or incorporeal form.
Fearsome Dedication (Su):When the 
spiritualist reaches 12th level, once per day 
as a swift action, a phantom in ectoplasmic 
form can grow more ferocious and 
frightening.
It becomes one size category larger than 
its current size, as affected by an enlarge 
person spell, and grows fiercer in combat, 
as if affected by a rage spell. This effect lasts 
for 1 round per class level of the spiritualist.
 
   When the spiritualist reaches 18th level, 
a phantom using fearsome dedication also 
gains the frightful presence extraordinary 
ability (DC equals 10 + half the phantom’s 
total hit dice + the phantom’s Charisma 
modifier; range 30 feet, duration 5d6 
rounds).
Resolute Demise (Su): When the 
spiritualist reaches 17th level, once per day 
when the phantom would be banished 
due to hit point loss, it may as a free action 
attempt a deathstroke against the foe 
that damaged it, automatically hitting 
and scoring a critical hit. If the defender 
survives the damage, he must make a 
Fortitude save (DC 10 + damage dealt) or 
die. The foe must be within the phantom’s 
reach to attempt this, but the attempt 
does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 
Regardless of the success of the attempt 
or any other factors, the phantom is 
then banished immediately after the 
deathstroke attempt.
blitzkrieg  unChained  
barbarian  arChetype
While most barbarians are relatively 
crude with technology, the blitzkrieg 
barbarian has an uncanny knack for using 
firearms in interesting ways. They can 
deploy multiple guns at once and even use 
them as bashing weapons. Their uniquely 
developed rage works well with their 
firearm prowess as they demolish foes with 
superior firepower.
“IF GUNZ IS GOOD, FINK ABOUT ‘OW 
MUCH MORE GOOD LOTZ OF GUNZ IZ.” 
Role: The blitzkrieg barbarian is solely 
focused on delivering and absorbing 
damage. His light armor means he’s 
unlikely to avoid taking hits, but he has 
the hit points to handle it. His abilities are 
focused on having a profusion of firearms 
at the cost of inaccurate fire. His method 
of hitting targets is to put enough bullets 
in the direction of the enemy that some of 
them must surely hit. Accuracy by volume. 
This is something we would consider an 
“advanced class” , you’re going to be rolling 
a lot of dice, and will probably want to 
pre-roll attacks before your turn in combat 
to keep from holding up the game. It’s fun, 
but it is not very efficient.
112
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A 
blitzkrieg barbarian is proficient with all 
simple weapons, firearms, and light armor.  
   This modifies weapon and armor 
proficiencies.
Gun Rage (Ex): A blitzkrieg barbarian can 
call upon inner reserves of strength and 
ferocity, granting him additional combat 
prowess. At 1st level, a blitzkrieg barbarian 
can rage for a number of rounds per day 
equal to 4 + his Constitution modifier. 
For each level after 1st he possesses, 
the blitzkrieg barbarian can rage for 2 
additional rounds per day. Temporary 
increases to Constitution, such as that 
gained from bear’s endurance, do not 
increase the total number of rounds that 
a blitzkrieg barbarian can rage per day. A 
blitzkrieg barbarian can enter a rage as a 
free action. The total number of rounds of 
rage per day is renewed after resting for 8 
hours, although these hours need not be 
consecutive.
While in a rage, a blitzkrieg barbarian 
gains a +2 bonus on all attack and damage 
rolls made with firearms (even when 
using them as a melee weapon), and on 
Will saving throws. In addition, he takes a 
–2 penalty to Armor Class. He also gains 
2 temporary hit points per Hit Die. These 
temporary hit points are lost first when a 
character takes damage, disappear when 
the rage ends, and are not replenished if 
the barbarian enters a rage again within 
1 minute of his previous rage. While in a 
rage, a barbarian cannot use any Charisma-, 
Dexterity-, or Intelligence-based skill 
(except Acrobatics, Fly, Intimidate, and 
Ride) or any ability that requires patience or 
concentration (such as spellcasting). 
In addition, any Rage Powers that apply to 
melee attack or damage rolls instead apply 
only to firearms for the blitzkrieg barbarian.
A blitzkrieg barbarian can end his rage as 
a free action, and is fatigued for 1 minute 
after a rage ends. A blitzkrieg barbarian 
can’t enter a new rage while fatigued or 
exhausted, but can otherwise enter a rage 
multiple times per day. If a barbarian falls 
unconscious, his rage immediately ends. 
   This ability modifies Rage.
Barrel Bludgeon (Ex): At 2nd level, a 
blitzkrieg barbarian may choose to use any 
firearm as a melee weapon. When he does, 
he is considered to be proficient with the 
firearm as a melee weapon and gains a 
bonus on the attack and damage rolls equal 
to the enhancement bonus of the firearm 
(and his bonus from gun rage while raging). 
The damage dealt is of the bludgeoning 
type, deals the same base damage as the 
firearm, and the critical multiplier is treated 
as 20/×2. 
   This ability replaces uncanny dodge.
MORE GUNS (Ex): At 3rd level, a 
blitzkrieg barbarian may choose to wield a 
two-handed firearm in one hand with a –2 
penalty on attack rolls while doing so. The 
weapon must be appropriately sized for 
him, and it is treated as one-handed when 
determining the effects of feats.
This ability replaces danger sense.
Twin-Linked (Ex): At 5th level, a 
blitzkrieg barbarian learns how to strap two 
identical firearms together linking them 
into a single weapon. The firearms must 
be the same base weapon, but may have 
different enchantments or ammunition. 
When firing a twin-linked weapon the 
blitzkrieg barbarian may choose to make 
two separate attack and damage rolls 
against the same target with a –4 penalty 
on attack rolls while doing so, this also 
consumes twice the normal amount of 
ammunition.
113
Example: The blitzkrieg barbarian may 
choose to use this in conjunction with 
MORE GUNS, suffering a –6 penalty per 
attack for two twin-linked two handed 
firearms, plus the normal penalties for two 
weapon fighting.
This ability replaces improved uncanny 
dodge.
Greater Gun Rage (Su): At 11th level, a 
blitzkrieg barbarian’s bonus on all attack 
and damage rolls made with firearms, and 
Will saving throws while raging increases to 
+3. In addition, the amount of temporary 
hit points gained when entering a rage 
increases to 3 per Hit Die. 
   This ability modifies greater rage.
Rain of Hate (Su): At 14th level, a raging 
blitzkrieg barbarian never has to reload 
their guns and never has a jam or misfire. 
Ammunition is consumed normally and is 
supernaturally transported from their pack 
or person into the firearm as it is expended, 
if no additional ammunition is available the 
gun cannot fire. This effect only lasts for the 
duration of the blitzkrieg barbarian’s rage.  
   This ability replaces indomitable will.
Mighty Gun Rage (Su): At 20th level, a 
blitzkrieg barbarian’s bonus on all attack 
and damage rolls made with firearms, and 
Will saving throws while raging increases to 
+4. In addition, the amount of temporary 
hit points gained when entering a rage 
increases to 4 per Hit Die. 
   This ability modifies mighty rage.
CoVert  infiltrator  
unChained  rogue  
arChetype
The covert infiltrator is a cunning and 
subtle tactician. While not as damage 
focused as traditional rogues, her suite of 
abilities allow her unprecedented powers 
of deception and disguise. A master of 
both spy craft and assassination she can 
infiltrate enemy units, fabricate dispatches, 
and dispatch enemies in a pinch. 
Class skills: The covert infiltrator’s class 
skills are Acrobatics, Appraise, Bluff, Climb, 
Diplomacy, Disable Device, Disguise, 
Escape Artist, Intimidate, Knowledge (all), 
Linguistics, Perception, Perform, Profession, 
Sense Motive, Sleight of Hand, Stealth, and 
Use Magic Device. 
   This alters the rogue’s class skills.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: The 
covert infiltrator is proficient in simple, 
light or one-handed martial weapons, and 
firearms. She is proficient with light armor, 
but not with shields.
This modifies weapon and armor 
proficiency.
Intel (Ex): At 1st level the covert 
infiltrator adds half her covert infiltrator 
class level (minimum 1) to all Knowledge 
skill checks and Linguistics checks to 
detect and create forgeries. They may 
make all Knowledge skill checks untrained.
This replaces evasion.
Master of Disguise (Ex): At 4th level, a 
covert infiltrator can don a disguise as a 
standard action by taking a –5 penalty on 
her check. She can take 10 on Bluff and 
Disguise checks, and use Bluff to create 
a diversion to hide as a swift action. She 
can take 20 on a Bluff or Disguise check 
once per day, plus one time per six levels 
beyond 5th.
This replaces debilitating injury.
114
Signature Weapon (Ex): At 5th level the 
covert infiltrator gains weapon finesse as 
a bonus feat, if she already has weapon 
finesse, she instead gains a bonus feat of 
her choice. 
In addition, she selects one type of 
firearm or one type of weapon that can 
be used with Weapon Finesse. Once this 
choice is made, it cannot be changed. 
If she selects a type of firearm, she gains 
a bonus equal to her Dexterity modifier 
on damage rolls when firing that type of 
firearm. 
If she selects a melee weapon whenever 
she makes a successful melee attack 
with the selected weapon, she adds her 
Dexterity modifier instead of her Strength 
modifier to the damage roll. If any effect 
would prevent the covert infiltrator 
from adding her Strength modifier to 
the damage roll, she does not add her 
Dexterity modifier. 
   This replaces finesse training.
Versatile Bluff (Ex): Starting at 6th level, 
when the covert infiltrator is detected 
while using Stealth, she can immediately 
attempt a Bluff skill check opposed by 
the Sense Motive skill of the creature 
that spotted her. If this check succeeds, 
the target assumes that the noise was 
something innocent and disregards 
the detection. This only functions if the 
creature cannot see the covert infiltrator. 
This ability can only be used once during a 
given Stealth attempt. If the same creature 
detects the covert infiltrator’s presence 
again, the ability has no effect.
In addition, when the covert infiltrator 
presents a forgery for inspection she 
can attempt a Bluff check opposed by 
the Sense Motive skill of the inspecting 
person. If the check is successful, the 
target neglects to inspect the forgery in 
detail and it is assumed to be authentic. 
This ability can only be used once during a 
given forgery attempt.
This replaces the rogue talent at 6th level.
Rogue Talents: The following rogue 
talents complement the covert infiltrator 
archetype: poison use, coax information, 
swift poison, quick disguise, underhanded, 
and trap spotter.
Advanced Talents: The following 
advanced rogue talents complement the  
covert infiltrator archetype: crippling strike, 
cutting edge, knock-out blow, skill mastery, 
and thoughtful reexamining.
skirmish  marauder  
unChained  rogue  
arChetype
Not all rogues are stealthy thieves. 
Skirmish marauders frequently use their 
skill and cunning on the battlefield, often 
banding together with fighters and front-
line combatants, the skirmish marauder 
uses experience and skill to deliver 
precision attacks to the target and aid her 
allies in combat.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency (Ex): 
A skirmish marauder is proficient with all 
simple and martial weapons and with light 
and medium armor, but not with shields. 
This replaces the skirmish marauder’s 
weapon and armor proficiencies.
Weapon Training (Ex): Starting at 5th 
level, a skirmish marauder can select one 
group of weapons, as noted on the fighter 
weapon training description. Whenever 
she attacks with a weapon from this 
group, she gains a +1 bonus on attack and 
damage rolls.
115
   Additionally at 9th, 13th, and 17th a 
skirmish marauder becomes further trained 
in another group of weapons. She gains 
a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls 
when using a weapon from this group. In 
addition, the bonuses granted by previous 
weapon groups increase by +1 each. 
For example, when a skirmish marauder 
reaches 9th level, she receives a +1 bonus 
on attack and damage rolls with one 
weapon group and a +2 bonus on attack 
and damage rolls with the weapon group 
selected at 3rd level. Bonuses granted from 
overlapping groups do not stack. Take the 
highest bonus granted for a weapon if it 
resides in two or more groups. 
A skirmish marauder also adds this bonus 
to any combat maneuver checks made with 
weapons from this group. This bonus also 
applies to the skirmish marauder’s Combat 
Maneuver Defense when defending against 
disarm and sunder attempts made against 
weapons from this group.
This replaces Finesse Training.
dominus  unChained  
summoner  arChetype
The dominus makes contact and forms 
a bond with an extraplanar machine spirit. 
They use their bond with this powerful 
entity to manifest a unique eidolon, a 
thundering, walking metal behemoth that 
destroys foes with a cacophonous roar of 
unrelenting gunfire.
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A 
dominus is proficient with all simple 
and martial weapons, firearms, light and 
medium armor, but not shields. A dominus 
can cast summoner spells while wearing 
light or medium armor without incurring 
the normal arcane spell failure chance. Like 
any other arcane spellcaster, a dominus 
wearing heavy armor or using a shield 
incurs a chance of arcane spell failure if the 
spell in question has a somatic component. 
A dominus still incurs the normal arcane 
spell failure chance for arcane spells 
granted by other classes.
This alters the summoner’s weapon and 
armor proficiencies and replaces summon 
monster 1.
Warmachine Eidolon (Ex): A dominus 
must select the unique warmachine 
subtype for her eidolon. This eidolon gains 
one half the normal amount of evolution 
points, minimum 1. 
This alters eidolon.
Warma Chine  subtype  
A warmachine eidolon is a frightening 
metal construct with a unique set of 
evolutions that scale with their summoner, 
it has half the normal number of evolution 
points but comes with several free 
evolutions at specific levels. A warmachine 
eidolon does not wear equipment but may 
be upgraded like any vehicle. 
Alignment: Any.
Base Form: Biped (limbs [cannons], limbs 
[legs], slam).
Base Evolutions: At 1st level, warmachine 
eidolons count as both constructs and 
outsiders for the purpose of effects such 
as the bane weapon special ability and 
the favored enemy class feature. It has 
no Constitution score and gains bonus 
hit points appropriate for a construct of 
its size (+20 for medium, +30 for large, 
+40 for huge). The warmachine eidolon 
has the unique cannon evolution giving 
it a 120 ft. ranged touch attack that deals 
1d6 bludgeoning and piercing damage, 
the ammunition for these cannons are 
manifested by the eidolon and never misfire 
or require reloading. These are considered 
primary natural attacks. 
116
At 4th level, warmachine eidolons gain 
the energy attacks evolution applied only 
to their cannons.
 - At 8th level, warmachine eidolons gain 
the large and mount evolutions and 
their cannons now have a base damage 
of 1d10.
 - At 12th level, warmachine eidolons gain 
DR 5/adamantine and their cannons 
gain the automatic quality.
 - At 13th level, warmachine eidolons gain 
the large evolution again increasing 
their size to Huge and their cannons 
now have a base damage of 2d8.
 - At 15th level, warmachine eidolons are 
able to evolve an additional cannon, at 
the cost of a 2-point evolution. 
 - At 18th level, warmachine eidolon 
cannons evolve and now have a base 
damage of 3d8 and can make an 
additional attack as though they have 
the speed weapon enchantment. 
retribution  Warpriest  
arChetype
Some Warpriests not only stalwartly 
proselytize their faith but also zealously 
reclaim sacred lands and strongholds for 
followers of their deity. These holy warriors 
are masters of building and commanding 
massive siege weapons and use them to 
devastating effect against the enemies of 
their faith. 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency: The 
retribution is proficient with all simple 
and martial weapons and firearms, as well 
as the favored weapon of his deity, and 
with light and medium armor and shields 
(except tower shields). If the warpriest 
worships a deity with unarmed strike as 
its favored weapon, the warpriest gains 
Improved Unarmed Strike as a bonus feat.
This alters weapon and armor 
proficiencies. 
Crusade Blessing (Su): The retribution 
gains this blessing and one other 
according to his deity.
Targeted Retribution (minor): At first 
level when using a firearm or siege engine 
that targets an area rather than a specific 
creature, the retribution can focus the 
brunt of the blast on a single creature 
within the target area. The target creature 
takes 1 additional point of damage for 
each level the retribution possesses. This is 
precision damage and is not multiplied on 
a critical hit.
Hands of the Legion (major): At 
10th level the retribution warpriest can 
empower himself and 8 others to vastly 
improve their engineering skills, enabling 
them to count as twice the number 
of workers, or cut the time required in 
half, for the purpose of assembling or 
disassembling siege engines. This effect 
lasts for one day.
This alters blessings.
Bonus Feats: At 3rd level the retribution 
warpriest gains Siege Engineer as a bonus 
feat.
 
At 9th level, he gains Master Siege 
Engineer as a bonus feat. He does not need 
to meet the prerequisites for these feats. 
These replace the warpriest bonus feats at 
3rd and 9th level.
117
apo Calypse  Wit Ch 
arChetype
The apocalypse witch, unlike most 
witches, revels in destruction. While still a 
powerful combat controller with potent 
hexes and spells, the apocalypse witch can 
also burn the energy of spells to create a 
blast of flaming energy. Almost any magic 
she encounters can be turned to the 
purpose of annihilation.
Burn Magic (Su): At 2nd level, the 
apocalypse witch has discovered a unique 
and powerful skill that allows her to ignite 
and tear asunder the fabric of magic itself 
to unleash incredible destructive energies. 
By expending a prepared spell, spell scroll, 
or a charge from a magic item, she can 
funnel the power into a blast that deals 
direct damage to a single target. She 
makes a ranged touch attack with a range 
of close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) against a 
single target that if successful deals 2d6+1 
combined fire and force damage per level 
of the spell expended. The apocalypse 
witch can burn an item that contains a 
spell she cannot normally cast, but she 
must succeed at a spellcraft check with 
a DC equal to 20 + the caster level of the 
spell she is trying to burn.
This replaces the hex normally gained at 
second level.
Explode magic (Su): At 6th level, when 
the apocalypse witch uses burn magic she 
can now choose to make an area attack 
with greater range, like fireball. This attack 
still deals 2d6+1 fire and force damage per 
level of the spell consumed.
This replaces the hex normally gained at 
sixth level.
Friendly Fire (Su): As an immediate 
action when a creature targets you with a 
ranged weapon attack, instead of target-
ing you they attack their nearest ally within 
30ft. A Will save negates this hex. Whether 
or not the save is successful, a creature can-
not be the target of this hex again for 1 day.
Light Strike (Su): As a standard action 
the target of this hex gains an increased 
chance of misfire with their firearm. When 
they make a ranged attack they have a 
misfire range of 1-5. If the target rolls within 
their normal misfire range, they roll a d20 
again; if this second roll is within 1-5, the 
gun explodes dealing weapon damage 
to all targets within 5 feet and the firearm 
gains the destroyed condition. This hex 
lasts for 1 round. A Will save negates this 
hex. Whether or not the save is successful, 
a creature cannot be the target of this hex 
again for 1 day.
Etched Bullets (Su): The witch gains 
scribe scroll as a bonus feat. Instead of writ-
ing the scroll to a piece of paper she can 
instead etch a magic formula on a bullet. 
If the etched bullet is loaded into her gun, 
the witch is considered to be holding the 
scroll in hand and can cast it normally while 
she is holding her firearm. The bullet is con-
sumed when the spell is cast. Alternatively, 
the witch can load and fire any etched 
bullet whose spell can target an area or 
creature. This uses the range of the firearm 
and adds any numerical enhancement 
bonus of the firearm to attack rolls and save 
DCs of the spell. Otherwise, the spell acts as 
normal.
Gunsmith (Ex): The witch gains the gun-
smithing feat. 
neW hexes 
aVailable  to 
all  WitChes
118
Desolate Magic (Su): At 10th level, when 
the apocalypse witch uses burn magic she 
can now choose to make a cone attack like 
cone of cold. This attack still deals 2d6+1 
fire and force damage per level of the 
spell consumed but now any creatures 
damaged by her burn magic ability are 
dazed for 1 round. 
This replaces the major hex normally 
gained at tenth level.
hexslinger  Wit Ch 
arChetype
Hexslingers are a singular and enigmatic 
group. No one knows whether communing 
with their firearm involves actual 
communication, but the magical bond 
certainly enables them to bring about 
destruction. 
Firearm Familiar: At first level the 
hexslinger gains one of the following 
firearms of her choice: blunderbuss, 
musket, or pistol; which functions as a 
conduit to her patron. She gets this firearm 
at no cost and gains proficiency in this 
specific weapon. This firearm may be 
enchanted like any normal ranged weapon. 
The firearm acts in all ways like a witch’s 
familiar for the purpose of preparing and 
gaining spells. Rather than communing 
with a familiar to prepare spells each day, 
a hexslinger must spend ten minutes 
cleaning and maintaining her firearm. 
A hexslinger can transfer her familiar 
to a new firearm using the same ritual 
performed to replace a lost or destroyed 
familiar, if she chooses to transfer to a new 
firearm her familiar retains all known spells. 
The firearm also gains a reservoir of 
mystical arcane energy that the hexslinger 
can draw upon to enhance her weapon. 
This arcane pool has a number of 
points equal to 1/2 her hexslinger level 
(minimum 1) + her Intelligence modifier. 
The pool refreshes once per day when the 
hexslinger renews her spells. 
At 1st level, a hexslinger can expend 
1 point from her arcane pool as a swift 
action to grant the firearm familiar a 
+1 enhancement bonus for 1 minute. 
For every four levels beyond 1st, the 
weapon gains another +1 enhancement 
bonus, to a maximum of +5 at 17th level. 
These bonuses can be added to the 
weapon, stacking with existing weapon 
enhancement to a maximum of +5. 
Multiple uses of this ability do not stack 
with themselves.
At 6th level, these bonuses can be 
used to add any of the following weapon 
properties: flaming, flaming burst, frost, 
greater designating, icy burst, reliable, shock, 
shocking burst, or speed.
Adding these properties consumes an 
amount of bonus equal to the property’s 
base price modifier. These properties 
are added to any the firearm familiar 
already has, but duplicates do not stack. 
If the weapon is not magical, at least a 
+1 enhancement bonus must be added 
before any other properties can be added. 
These bonuses and properties are decided 
when the arcane pool point is spent and 
cannot be changed until the next time the 
hexslinger uses this ability. These bonuses 
do not function if the weapon is wielded 
by anyone other than the hexslinger. A 
hexslinger can only enhance her firearm 
familiar in this way. 
This ability otherwise functions like and 
replaces the standard witch familiar and 
replaces the hexes normally gained at 1st 
and 4th level.
119
lightning  flashes
Darkness came suddenly in the steep mountain pass where the dwarven forces were 
entrenched, even more so on a stormy night like this. Here at the apex, the ground 
leveled out and went through a choke point, and the dwarven forces used it to make 
their last stand. Their commander, Lord Fjornsdale, a renowned stoneshaper and 
knight, managed to halt the diabolist forces’ advance despite the enemies’ superior 
numbers and unprecedented ferocity. He paced the lamp-lit interior of the stone-
shaped bunker he built for himself, taking furtive glances at the array of forces and 
battle lines drawn on the table in the center of the room. His second-in-command 
looked on while he scribbled in a ledger nearby.
Suddenly a lightning strike illuminated a figure looming in the doorway. “Gods above! 
Ye gave me a fright!” The commander exclaimed, “I thought for a moment you were 
Bloody Mace hisself. ” 
The figure stepped into the light, revealing a slim, tallish man, his crisp uniform 
highlighted a ramrod-straight posture. He pressed his spectacles up his dark red face, 
showing through the glare a pair of striking violet eyes. “My apologies, commander, I 
am Afu Ferdinand of Savage Company. You requested our services. ” 
The commander faltered momentarily, transfixed by the pair of small ram-like horns 
on the well-spoken young man’s head. “Aye, I sought to hire them beasties to do a bit o’ 
wet work for us, but I didnae expect em to send a... a... what the hell are ye anyway?” 
Afu gave no sign of reaction to the slight, “I am baadan, sir. With the support of my 
team, I am more than up to the task at hand. ”
Three hours later, Afu and his team found themselves posted up against the side of 
a trench, catching their breath after the slog to the front lines. The occasional whine of 
enemy long gunners taking pot-shots at light sources punctuated the night. The men 
had become soaked and filthy but yet unharmed. A testament to their skill, Afu noted, 
as they happened to run into an enemy raid on the way here. Afu still appeared to put 
off an air of poise despite the mud on the arms and legs of his uniform. A lanky half-
orc carrying a lever-action rifle sidled over and leaned in, “you sure you’re up for what’s 
next? I could ask them sappers for a satchel charge and me n’ the boys can try to take 
this bunker ourselves. ” 
Afu remained silent for a moment, and Skin began to wonder if he might have said 
something wrong. “Sergeant, you seem to be under a misconception. I requested your 
team, not due to any deficiency in my combat ability, but because I was confident that 
you would do your jobs and leave me to do mine. No doubt you could accomplish this 
mission without me, I accepted the job because the parameters aligned well with my 
120
current line of research. Get me to the point specified and let me do my work. ” Skin 
nodded and started rousing the team to motion, thinking better of remaining under 
that icy stare. Afu appreciated when people stated their ignorance out loud, as it saved 
him the arduous task of trying to scry it out through their body language and facial 
expressions.
The team fetched a ladder, and Skin peeked over the side of the trench. As the 
infantryman hoped, he found a spot below one of the few covered approaches through 
no man’s land. Where a building previously stood, now they found a crater, whatever 
explosion that had removed most of the building left a partial wall that blocked some 
light, and the crater’s depression blocked most sight-lines. One downside, the continual 
rain washed gore and mud into the sump. “Up we go boys, one at a time, an’ keep yer 
blasted heads down!” The sergeant barked, “embrace the suck, me boyos. ” Part of his 
pleasure came from knowing the muck would help hide them further, and increase 
their odds of survival. One after another, they went up the ladder and slid over the 
crest. They crawled through mud and blood and shit for hours, holding their rifles by 
the forward sling mount to elevate the barrels, occasionally twisting a helmet back to 
look forward and recover their bearings. Skin wore a grim smile on his face the entire 
time, but Afu relied on his determination. He knew these diabolist bastards were in for a 
very nasty surprise.
They approached the enemy trenches near their latrines, “catch em with their pants 
down, ” Skin had thought. He had been on countless trench raids and even led a few, but 
this was the first time he had gotten to plan the op, and he was rather proud of how 
well it had gone. He thought to himself, “I do lead a charmed sort of life, ” as he scraped 
some chunk of indiscriminate filth from his cheek. 
Afu observed the men, pleased with his team so far. They slid into the enemy trenches 
like a smattering of shadows and set to work with bayonets and cudgels. Skin used 
his bayoneted rifle like a short spear, alternating between thrusts with the blade and 
bashing with the buttstock. One blue-skinned soldier produced what appeared to be a 
garrote, a look of supreme satisfaction on his face as he sawed the wire back and forth 
through a sentry’s trachea. It was a matter of seconds, and this section of the trench 
was clear, with no more sound than the wet smack of a stoved in skull. Afu made a 
mental note of this team’s efficiency. This would all be in his report once they made 
it back to camp. They quickly traversed through the trenches, and no alarm sounded, 
so the enemies they encountered were not prepared for an encounter with five filthy 
monsters slinking through the shadows.
They finally came to a hard point, an enemy bunker in an elevated position. Stealth 
wouldn’t work here. This situation called for them to strike hard and swiftly. Skin and 
the blue-skinned corporal pulled pins on grenades simultaneously and tossed them 
through the opening, as soon as those went off the whole team went in smooth and 
fast, shooting anything that moved, their backs to the wall as they spread out over half 
the room. The fighting over in an instant, they locked and barricaded the far door, then 
121
set up a temporary cover near the door they had come in. 
Afu walked over to a window slit and spotted the target, the enemy commander’s 
bunker, several hundred feet away, his standard flying in magical light during the 
darkest part of the morning. Afu took several objects from his satchel and started 
muttering the incantations, flourishing his hands and lining up a pair of ground-glass 
lenses and spying the target through them. Skin wandered over, “what are you trying to 
do with those?” he asked. 
“Do me a favor, Sergeant, ” Afu replied without looking up, “shut. UP . ” As the 
incantation finished a beam of blinding white light speared down from the sky directly 
over the enemy commander’s bunker, Afu twisted one of the lenses slightly, and the 
beam shifted to the left a few feet. “That ought to do it, ” he murmured under his breath. 
The world erupted in a blinding flash as a 60-foot wide column of ungodly fire shot 
down from the sky and obliterated the bunker. Waves of dirt and hardened stone 
fountaining up around the edges of the strike zone and came peppering back down to 
the ground. Afu used his lenses like a spyglass to survey the effects. The team was so 
dumbstruck that they almost missed the first open expression of emotion they ever saw 
on their commander’s face. Afu... smiled.
ubu , dire  Wolf  
in  Canid  field  armor
122
feats
aMateur  deed  ( coMB at )
Although you are not a gunslinger, you 
have and can use deeds. 
Prerequisite: Grit or panache class feature, 
see text. 
Benefit: You gain a single deed from a 
class that grants deeds. Your total character 
level must meet or exceed the character 
level of the deed you wish to take per the 
gunslinger deed class feature. 
Special: You may take this feat multiple 
times, each time it grants one additional 
deed.
 
 
 
death  B losso M ( coMB at )
You can strike out at every foe within 
threatened range. 
Prerequisites: Dex 17, Improved Snap 
Shot, Point-Blank Shot, Rapid Shot, Snap 
Shot, base attack bonus +12. 
Benefit: When you use the full-attack 
action, you can give up your regular 
attacks and instead make one ranged 
attack at your highest base attack bonus 
against each opponent within threatened 
squares. You must make a separate attack 
roll against each opponent. 
When you use the Death Blossom feat, 
you also forfeit any bonus or extra attacks 
granted by other feats, spells, or abilities.
feats , skills , and  spells
some  supplements  attempt  to  Create  large  amounts  
of  material  for  feats , skills , and  spells ; in  this  book  
We ha Ve only  Written  ne W feats  Where  We felt  it 
Was  ne Cessary  to  fill  gaps  or  shift  existing  feats  to 
CoVer  firearms , We expanded  skills  Where  We needed  
additional  CoVerage  to  deal  With  the  spe Cifi C rules  in 
this  book , and  With  spells , We only  Wrote  do Wn those  
ideas  Whi Ch seemed  both  balan Ced  and  fresh , While  
sti Cking  to  our  Core  Con Cepts . the  existing  feats  and  
spells  are  Very  extensi Ve and  Work  great  With  our  
added  rules , keeping  our  ne W Content  Compatible  With  
existing  Content  has  enabled  us  to  take  an  “only  as 
needed ” approa Ch to  these  areas .
123
eNha Nced  P recisio N ( coMB at )
You are especially skilled at striking targets 
from range. 
Prerequisites: Sneak attack class feature, 
Stealth 6 ranks. 
Benefit: You add 30 feet to the range that 
you may make sneak attacks to targets. 
Normal: Ranged attacks can count as 
sneak attacks only if the target is within 30 
feet. 
Special: You can take this feat multiple 
times. Each time you do, you extend the 
range by 30 feet.
gorehor N ( racial  F eat )
You have trained in the old ways and are 
ready to defend others with the sturdy horns 
that grow upon your head. 
Prerequisites: Baade, Kemano. 
Benefit: You can make a gore attack for 
1d6 points of damage, plus your Strength 
modifier. You’re considered proficient in 
this attack and can apply feats or effects 
appropriate to natural attacks to it. If used 
as part of a full attack action, the gore is 
considered a secondary attack and is made 
at your full base attack bonus –5, and adds 
half your Strength modifier to damage. 
If you already possess a gore attack the 
damage for this attack increases by one 
step (1d8).
heavy  B rute  ( racial  F eat )
You might be called a freak, but you’re built 
on a more massive scale than the rest of your 
kind. 
Prerequisites: Goblinoid, Kemano, Orc, 
Oread, Baade. 
Benefit: You treat your size as one category 
larger for the purposes of calculating CMB, 
CMD, carrying capacity, and any size-based 
special attacks you use or that are used 
against you. A Medium sized creature with 
this feat qualifies as Large for the purpose 
of taking the feat Awesome Blow.
PiNcer  ( tea MW ork )
You and your team are adept at crushing 
opponents between your vehicles. 
Prerequisites: Mounted Combat. 
Benefit: When you make a successful 
ram attack against an enemy vehicle and 
your ally with this feat is driving a flanking 
vehicle, you deal double ram damage. 
Normal: You deal standard ram damage 
even with flanking ally vehicles.
Pro Ne shooter  ( coMB at )
Your training with ranged attacks gives you 
an edge when firing while prone. 
Prerequisite: Proficiency with firearms or 
crossbows. 
Benefit: You gain a +4 bonus on ranged 
attack rolls made while Prone. 
Normal: You only gain a +4 bonus to AC 
against ranged attacks for being prone.
sMart  shot  ( coMB at )
Your anatomical insight adds deadliness to 
your shots. 
Prerequisites: Int 13, Point Blank Shot, 
Precise Shot. 
Benefit: As a standard action, you may 
make an attack with a firearm and add your 
Intelligence modifier on the attack and 
damage roll. You must be within 30 feet 
of your target to deal this extra damage. 
Creatures immune to critical hits and sneak 
attacks are immune to this extra damage. 
Special: Starting at 2nd level, a ranger with 
firearm proficiency may select Smart Shot 
as a combat style feat.
124
skills
linguisti Cs
Languages are generally regional, racial, 
or class specific; we’ve tried to fill some 
gaps with these three community or 
organizational based language options. 
Hand-sign is a necessary addition for 
non-verbal communication open to any 
character, with the more specialized 
military handsign as an offshoot. Jargon 
is a different creation altogether; unique 
to every occupation, being able to speak 
jargon is something that usually comes 
naturally and becomes indispensable for 
communicating with others in a niche field. 
Hand-Sign
Hand-sign is a language that uses the 
visual-manual method to convey meaning. 
Hand-sign is expressed through manual 
articulations in combination with non-
manual elements. Hand-sign is a full-
fledged natural language with its own 
grammar and lexicon. Hand-sign is not 
universal and there exist many different 
forms for communication in different 
languages and they are not mutually 
intelligible with each other, although 
there are often striking similarities 
among different hand-sign languages. 
Like any natural language, individual 
communities will develop their own 
words and slang terms that are not used 
and will be unknown outside the group. 
Hand-sign should not be confused with 
body language, a type of nonverbal 
communication. 
 
    When learning hand-sign as a known 
language, you must designate which 
language it originates from. When two 
individuals with different languages of 
hand-sign attempt to communicate, one 
of them may attempt a DC20 Linguistics 
check to find shared signs among their 
languages and attempt a rudimentary 
communication. 
Military Handsign
Efficient combat operations depend on 
clear, accurate, and secure communication 
among ground units. Control and 
coordination are achieved by the most 
rapid means of communication available 
between soldiers and units. When audible 
or magical means of communication are 
inadequate, or not available, a station-to-
station system of visual communication 
is an alternate means for transmitting 
orders, information, or requests for aid or 
support. Military handsign is a system of 
signals using brief hand and arm gestures. 
These signals can quickly and easily convey 
all forms of standard orders, including 
but not limited to tactical operations, 
maneuvering, and support. The signals 
are not a panacea for a lack of standard 
communications, they are vulnerable to 
enemy interception and their effectiveness 
is significantly reduced during periods of 
poor visibility, and when terrain restricts 
observation. Each military force will have 
its own language of military handsign, 
although some signals may be common. 
Other forces may even go out of their way 
to develop counter-sign languages to 
spread misinformation if they are observed 
by the enemy. 
Jargon
Jargon is a naturally occurring ill-defined 
collection of slang terms, acronyms, jokes, 
mannerisms, and phrasing developed by 
long term exposure to life in a military 
organization. Jargon is unique to each 
organization, and further elements are 
unique to occupations and divisions 
within that organization. Jargon itself 
changes rapidly over time as new terms 
are added to the military lexicon and 
125
more slang is created. The key benefits 
of jargon are primarily twofold. First, 
obfuscating discussion to the uninitiated. 
It can be quite easy to make an innocuous 
conversation have drastically different 
meanings, hiding your true motives and 
intentions in words and phrases that seem 
normal to those who do not share the 
same background. Second, identifying 
frauds and imposters. Jargon is incredibly 
hard to learn without coming by it 
naturally over time and a casual discussion 
can reveal someone who isn’t part of the 
group with glaring obviousness in just a 
few minutes. 
Jargon cannot normally be taken as 
an additional language without special 
training, however anyone actively 
employed in a military or coming from 
a military background should pick it 
up quickly. GM’s are encouraged to 
give jargon as a free bonus language 
to characters and NPCs with military 
experience. 
ride
While Ride is normally used for a person 
riding an animal mount, we also use it 
when a skill check is required to control a 
vehicle. There is no “Drive” skill, having less 
skills makes the game easier to play, and 
adding skills threatens to stretch the often 
scarce skill points thinner than they already 
are. Some tables might wish to change the 
name of this skill to “Drive” but whatever 
you call it, they are interchangeable.  
Holding reins, handlebars, or turning a 
steering wheel all take the same skill. In 
some previously published vehicle rules 
you may note that specific methods of 
transportation have special “driving checks” 
associated with them, like Profession 
(sailor) or Profession (driver), or even 
Handle Animal. These are appropriate for 
their specific types of vehicles, however all 
of the wheeled and tracked vehicles in this 
book use Ride or Profession (driver) as their 
designated skill.  
spells
The library of spells available to 
spellcasters is vast and extensive. With a 
little creative thinking they can be applied 
to nearly any task in any situation. With 
our focus on martial elements and only 
creating content where we felt there was 
an obvious need, we have not included 
very many new spells in this book. Most of 
these new spells are only slight variations 
on existing spells. This often expands 
mechanics to include guns, or changing 
an existing spell to affect the expanded 
options that were not previously available.
Bullet  sPhere
School abjuration; Level bloodrager 3, 
cleric/oracle 3, druid 3, magus 3, ranger 2, 
shaman 3, sorcerer/wizard 3, summoner 
2, unchained summoner 3 Domain 
protection 2; Elemental School metal 3, 
ice 3 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S, M (a single arrowhead or 
bullet) 
Range personal 
Target you 
Duration 1d4 rounds
An immobile, translucent 30-foot 
diameter globe of force springs up around 
you, instantly stopping all projectiles that 
contact the barrier, but allowing creatures 
to pass through harmlessly. When the 
duration expires the frozen projectiles fall 
to the ground. 
126
divi Ne iNsPiratio N
School divination; Level cleric/oracle 2, 
druid 2, inquisitor 1, warpriest 2, paladin 1 
Domain knowledge 2 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S, DF 
Range personal 
Target you 
Duration instantaneous 
You call upon your deity or a greater 
power to provide you with a moment 
of inspired wisdom. This allows you to 
attempt a single Knowledge skill check of 
your choice with a +10 insight bonus. You 
are treated as trained in any Knowledge 
skill used for this check, and can use this 
spell to reroll a Knowledge skill check you 
have already failed.
heavy  cali Ber
School transmutation; Level paladin 1, 
ranger 1, sorcerer/wizard 1, summoner 1; 
Elemental School metal 1, void 1 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S 
Range personal 
Targets you 
Duration 1 minute/level (D)
Heavy caliber significantly increases 
the weight and density of ammunition 
from your firearm the instant before they 
strike their target and then return them to 
normal a few moments later. This works as 
gravity bow but can only affect firearms.
MuFF le  Wea PoN
School illusion (glamer); Level bard 1, 
cleric/oracle 1, druid 1, hunter 1, inquisitor 
1, mesmerist 1, paladin 1, psychic 1, ranger 
1, shaman 1, warpriest 1; Subdomain 
solitude 1 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S, M (a piece of lint, down, 
or dust bunny) 
Range touch 
Target one weapon touched 
Duration 2 hours/level 
Saving Throw none(harmless); Spell 
Resistance no(harmless)
This spell causes a single weapon 
to operate completely without noise. 
while the spell is in effect firearms fire 
soundlessly, and melee weapons make 
no sound when striking weapons or other 
objects.
MuFF le  Wea PoN, coMM uNal
School illusion (glamer); Level bard 2, 
cleric/oracle 2, druid 2, hunter 2, inquisitor 
2, mesmerist 2, paladin 2, psychic 2, ranger 
2, shaman 2, warpriest 2; Subdomain 
solitude 2 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S, M (a piece of lint, down, 
or dust bunny) 
Range touch 
Target weapons touched 
Duration 2 hours/level 
Saving Throw none(harmless); Spell 
Resistance no(harmless)
This spell functions like muffle weapon 
except you divide the duration in 1-hour 
increments among the weapons touched. 
sky Bea M
School evocation (fire); Level magus 6, 
sorcerer/wizard 6, summoner 5, unchained 
summoner 6; Domain fire 6; Subdomain 
arson 8; Elemental School fire 6 
Casting Time 1 round 
Components V, S, F/DF (a magnifying glass 
with a perfect lens worth 1,500 gp) 
Range long (400 ft. + 40 ft./level) 
Area cylinder (15-ft. radius, 100-ft. high) 
Duration instantaneous 
Saving Throw Reflex half; Spell 
Resistance yes
Upon casting a bright vertical column 
of light shines down from the heavens 
illuminating and clearly marking the spell 
area for the duration of the casting time. 
127
At any time during the casting, the caster 
may choose to move the target location up 
to 15 ft a single time. The spell deals 1d8+1 
points of fire damage per caster level 
(maximum 15d8+15). 
sPell  clear
School transmutation; Level bard 1, 
bloodrager 1, cleric/oracle 1, inquisitor 1, 
paladin 1, psychic 1, shaman 1, sorcerer/
wizard 1, witch 1 Domain earth 1; 
Subdomain metal 1; Elemental School 
earth 1, metal 1 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S 
Range touch 
Target creature touched 
Duration instantaneous 
This spell repairs a damaged firearm held 
by the target creature, restoring 1d6 hit 
points to the firearm and removing the 
broken condition, as long as that condition 
was gained by a firearm misfire.
tra NsMute  earth  to  guNP oWder
School transmutation (earth); Level druid 
5, sorcerer/wizard 5; Elemental School 
earth 5 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S, M (alchemical sulfur 
worth 100 gp) 
Range close (25 ft. + 5 ft./2 levels) 
Area one cubic ft./level (S) 
Duration permanent; see text 
Saving Throw no; Spell Resistance no
This spell turns natural, loose soil of any 
sort into an equal volume of gunpowder. 
This spell cannot be used on hard packed 
dirt, stone, or buildings. While perfectly 
functional for all uses, the gunpowder 
produced by this spell appears of very low 
quality and will never sell for more than 10 
gp per casting. 
tra NsMute  Water  to  F uel
School transmutation; Level druid 5, 
sorcerer/wizard 5 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S, M (a few drops of oil and 
water) 
Range close (25 ft. + 5 ft./ 2 levels) 
Effect up to 2 gallons of water/level 
Duration instantaneous 
Saving Throw see text; Spell Resistance 
see text
This spell transforms a volume of normal 
or magically created water into an equal 
volume of alchemical fuel. This fuel is 
perfectly functional but appears of low 
quality and cannot be sold to make a profit. 
This spell cannot be used to affect water 
that a creature has already consumed or 
ingested. A creature constructed of water 
or native to the Plane of Water can be 
targeted by this spell and takes 1d4 points 
of damage per caster level (maximum 
10d4). The creature can attempt a Fortitude 
save to reduce the damage by half.
tra NsMute  F uel  to  Water
School transmutation; Level druid 5, 
sorcerer/wizard 5 
Casting Time 1 standard action 
Components V, S, DF/M (a few drops of oil 
and water) 
Range close (25 ft. + 5 ft./ 2 levels) 
Effect up to 2 gallons of water/level 
Duration instantaneous 
Saving Throw none; Spell Resistance none
This spell is identical to transmute water 
to fuel but it changes an equal volume of 
alchemical fuel into plain, clear (and safe) 
water.
128
rhythm  of  battle
Ping! The sniper’s bullet ricocheted off Hoaka’s ballistic shield a second before the 
report reached her ears. “Cover!” The ironclad cleric yelled at Afu, the most junior 
member of her team. He was advancing to the next position of safety but not moving 
as fast as he should.
This portion of the battle was relatively quiet; Savage Company forces had almost 
overcome hostile resistance as a whole. Doc and Adder took turns leapfrogging in an 
advance, the enemy sprayed covering fire at them the entire time. Doc went down, but 
Hoaka surmised the hit was a glancing blow off his armor as she saw no blood. All the 
shots missed. Adder, the nimble kemano, zig-zagged while he advanced.
The group closed the gap on the enemy position. Afu took his turn advancing when 
a spray of blood shot out of his back, the sniper again. Hoaka, wary of this scenario, 
went into action. “Not today!” She thought as the baade battle chaplain sprinted 
forward with a speed that belied her considerable half-ton mass, and deployed the 
double-walled extending shield she carried, setting the barricade between Afu and 
the  enemy fire. Blood gushed freely from both sides of his abdomen, she grabbed her 
reliquary and closed her eyes in concentration. The flash of light started in her closed 
fists but rapidly seeped between her fingers and burst out in a blinding, rushing, 
incandescent wave. Afu sucked in a breath, and his eyes popped open, but Hoaka was 
no longer by his side. She had other business now.
Striding forward heedless of enemy fire, she worked a spell. A circle of swirling 
blades sprang up from the ether, ringing in Hoaka and nearby hostiles. She kept 
stalking forward and cast another spell, this one generating a transparent dome 
around them. The next shot from the sniper would not be a problem. She pulled 
the pin on the smoke grenade stored in her battle censer and started swinging her 
weapon in slow circles. Soon, smoke concealed the whole area. The enemies, confused 
before, now began to grow worried. They listened to Hoaka’s steady steps crushing 
rock and gravel under her boots and the slow, rhythmic whooshing of the censer 
bludgeoning the smoky air. Before they were able to pinpoint her position, she darted 
among them. 
As she stepped up to an enemy, the man fired a shot that bounced off Hoaka’s 
Savage Plate pauldrons. She brought the censer down in a crushing arc and caved in 
his skull. Bits of blood, bone, brains, and teeth sprayed out and splattered on Hoaka’s 
armor, some blood spattering the sun emblazoned on her chest plate. She bore down 
on a second enemy.  Unable to see, one of the remaining men in the ring heard this 
attack, followed by the sounds of another of his fellows who died screaming to the 
weapon of the armored hulk that had trapped them here. Shaken to his core, he 
backed up as much as he could without hitting the blades that confined him and 
129
gripped his weapon in sweaty hands. Before she approached the final enemy, Hoaka 
cast a third spell, emerging from the smoke as she swung the censer in an upward 
sweep. When the spiked head struck her foe, a blast of force sent him flying back, his 
body shredding into wet confetti in the barrier of magical blades, the blood and gore 
splashing in a fan-shaped shower on the other side.
Hoaka dismissed her spells as the now-recovered Afu dropped a fireball on the 
sniper under Adder’s direction. Hoaka took a minute and surveyed the battle, which 
had now come to a close. Afu sat down with a wince and allowed Doc to check him 
out. Other than the ruined shirt, he seemed fine, so Doc offered a chuckle and a 
lollipop. Adder jogged a quick route to secure the perimeter. When he returned, he 
removed his helmet and laid out on the ground, using the overturned bowl as a pillow 
with his long white ears stretched out above his head.
Multiple columns of green smoke lazily climbed into the distant sky, signaling 
the all-clear from other teams. Now that the fighting ended, Hoaka inhaled a deep 
breath of relief. She dropped her pack and pulled off her helmet, revealing a strikingly 
beautiful face and chin-length black hair. Her deep brown eyes held a glint of 
brimming moisture while she scanned her team. Her fingers deftly released straps and 
buckles, bracers and pauldrons dropping to the ground, followed by the breastplate, 
and padded gambeson. Next, she tackled the plated boots, cuisse, and greaves, and 
shucked her pants. Clad in only a breech-cloth, her six-foot five-inch frame radiated 
heat; sweat rolled over her red-brick-colored skin and pooled in the crevices between 
prominent muscles.
Through her locks, she felt the stare of Doc and Afu from afar, knowing Doc’s clan 
was rather progressive and didn’t hold to the old ways as her family had. From the 
expression on his face, she knew he suffered from the enlightened races’ silly taboo 
against exposed female breasts. Then there was Afu, the poor boy practically raised his 
whole life by humans. To save their modesty, Hoaka drew a strip of cloth from her pack 
and tied the rag over her full chest, more muscle than breast, but the significant bits 
were covered, and she had restored their dignity.
Hoaka bent over and dug in her pack, pulling out a bundle of wrapped cloth. She 
laid the rough weave on the ground and unrolled a blanket, spreading out the sheet 
into a flat square. Several items were stored inside, the first of which she picked up 
and shook out. The object appeared to be a thick woven belt with large panels of 
green fabric in the shape of leaves. She fastened this around her waist over her clout, 
the leaf-like panels separating over her broad thigh as she knelt to retrieve the other 
items. She held four bundles of tiny bones, each with holes drilled through the middle 
and strung on strings dangling from a loop. She fastened these around her wrists and 
ankles, the bones clicking and rattling as they bumped against each other.
Stepping to a flat, open part of the ground, she took a deep breath and closed her 
eyes. One foot began to stomp the ground, the rattles banging out a steady rhythm. 
130
Soon her other foot joined the percussion, strong, deft movements creating a beat 
that echoed the thump of her body pounding the earth. Hoaka brought her arms up, 
and the shaking of the bones created a counter-tempo. Her voice sang out in bright 
tones, the abrupt cut syllables of the ancient baade language matching the beat 
of her dance. As she progressed, the tempo increased, the volume of her crashing 
footfalls getting louder, emphasized as she slapped her thighs in a deep crouch. Nearly 
shouting and striking the air, the dance transformed into almost a battle of its own. 
Hoaka performed for her ancestors, a ritual that had gone mostly unchanged for eons. 
With a final scream and leap into the air, it ended with a boom as her body struck the 
hard-packed dirt. Hoaka stared near her feet, unfocused as she caught her breath. 
Having thanked the ancestors for their victory, Hoaka fulfilled her obligation.
When they got back to camp, Hoaka dismissed the team with orders to reset their 
gear and be ready for inspection in the morning. Outside her tent, she saw Skin 
debriefing Grrzelga and Aleeshrak, she gave them a quick wave and went inside to 
change. A few minutes later, the ladies came into their shared quarters and started 
stowing their gear. The bugbear gave Hoaka a silent nod, but the kobold squealed out, 
“Hoaka! How are you?!”
“Had to bloody my armor again today, ” Hoaka grumbled, cleaning said armor, “I’m 
worried about that boy. ”
“Afu? I’m sure with a caring squad leader like you, he’s in great hands!” Exclaimed 
Aleeshrak. Hoaka remained silent for a moment, working away a stubborn red smudge 
from the edge of the sun emblazoned on her breastplate.
“I didn’t read anything about sluggishness in his file or the reports from the drill 
instructors. Something is going on here, and I’m going to get to the bottom of it. ” 
Hoaka said with finality.
The next morning her team had assembled in a formation when Hoaka exited her 
billet. She strolled along the line and examined every detail. She started with Adder, 
tugging at his rifle sling; it appeared worn but still serviceable, much like the kemano 
himself. Next was Doc, she checked some of his pockets and gear pouches and found 
them all suitably secured. Last, she arrived at Afu. His uniform top showed fresh 
stitching, so he had mended it, but something caught her eye, his belt and trousers 
were fastened at least two inches too low. She gave a curt nod and ordered the team 
to fall out, but called Afu back before he got out of earshot. When he got closer, she 
leaned in conspiratorially, “I know it could be embarrassing, but you should have come 
to me with your problem. You could have put the whole team in danger. ” She silenced 
him with a preemptive glare before he managed a protest and slipped a bottle of salve 
into his hand. “Apply this to the chafed area every morning, and it should clear right 
u p.”
Afu looked down at the bottle in his hand with the dawning realization, “thank you, 
131
boss. ” He said, suppressing his rising embarrassment at the mistake.
“Don’t worry about it, ” Hoaka said, “but don’t let it happen again, and make sure to 
get clothes that fit. Unlike the rest of the men you’ll never stop growing, so you have 
to change out garments more often. ”
Hoaka and Afu started walking after the rest of the team when a flight of rockets 
screamed overhead and collided with a building across the camp. Afu glanced at 
Hoaka as she donned her helmet and said, “time to go to work. ”

132
if there  is  something  that  keeps  a soldier  ali Ve 
other  than  their  training , it ’s their  gear . W e’Ve 
Worked  on  bringing  you  a greatly  expanded  list  of 
Weapons , ad Venturing  equipment , explosi Ves , armor , 
and  al Chemi Cal  Creations  to  outfit  your  team  and  
help  them  Complete  their  ob JeCti Ve. many  items  are  
non -magi Cal  repla Cements  for  items  you  already  
kno W. this  helps  if  you  don ’t ha Ve a healer  or  Caster  
in  your  party , or  are  running  a lo W-magi C Campaign . 
depending  on  your  ad Ventures , some  equipment  or  eVen 
Weapons  may  be  issued  as  part  of  an  assignment , their  
disposition  to  be  aCC ounted  for  upon  Completion  of 
the  mission . some  of  the  larger  Weapons  Come  With  
a high  Cost  and  are  intended  as  part  of  an  army  or 
large  operation , these  might  not  make  sense  for  a 
pC to  oWn indi Vidually , are  often  impra Cti Cal  for  
ad Venturing , and  Can  be  do Wnright  game -breaking  
in  the  Wrong  hands . this  equipment  is  intended  to 
expand  the  options  normally  aVailable  to  players .
equipment
133
Weapons
The firearms in this book are an 
expansion to the modern firearms that 
already exist in the Pathfinder Roleplaying 
Game. In a “guns everywhere” campaign 
firearms are considered simple weapons, 
but to accommodate various styles of 
play we have denoted specific firearm 
proficiencies in classes so that they are 
compatible in games where firearms 
might be more rare. All of these firearms 
use some sort of manufactured cartridge 
ammunition, complete bullets with a brass 
shell, primer and powder load, and a lead 
or other metal projectile. Manufactured 
cartridges are chamber-loaded, in that 
the cartridge is inserted directly into 
the chamber either by hand or by an 
ammunition-feeding mechanism such 
as a magazine or clip. Otherwise, loading 
follows the rules for advanced firearms. 
Other rules for loading a firearm depend 
on the firearm’s overall capacity and 
replaceable magazine capability. 
Pay careful attention to the cost of 
both the weapons and their ammunition. 
Firearms are very expensive to carry 
and operate, and this cost offsets their 
higher lethality on average. Enemies and 
characters may die more quickly, but this 
comes at a gold cost, gold that would 
normally be used to buy better defenses 
and weapons. 
Internal Magazine Firearms 
   Some firearms, such as shotguns, bolt-
actions, lever-actions, and older styles 
such as revolvers, retain their ammunition 
internally, either through a permanently 
attached tube-feed magazine, an internal 
holding chamber, or a revolving cylinder. 
Unless otherwise stated, it is a move action 
to load up to 6 rounds of ammunition into 
a one-handed or two-handed firearm of 
this nature.
Magazines 
   Reloading devices such as clips, ammo 
belts, “stripper clips, ” and detachable 
magazines allow many firearms to 
be reloaded more quickly than their 
predecessors, with the entire magazine 
being replaced relatively swiftly. Such 
firearms require a swift action to load a 
one-handed or two-handed firearm to the 
capacity of the replacement magazine.
Belted 
   Some weapons use long chains of 
ammunition strung together with metal 
links or flexible belts. These types of 
weapons require a move action to open 
the gun, place a new belt in the feed pawl, 
and then close and charge the gun.  
Feats and special equipment can be used 
or combined to reduce these loading times 
further, reducing a move action to a swift 
action, or a swift action to a free action. 
Automatic Weapon Quality 
   Some firearms include a new type 
of firearm—the automatic weapon. A 
weapon with the automatic weapon 
quality fires a burst of bullets with a single 
pull of the trigger, attacking all creatures 
in a line. This line starts from any corner of 
your space and extends to the limit of the 
weapon’s range or until it strikes a barrier 
it cannot penetrate. When an automatic 
weapon attacks all creatures in a line, it 
makes a separate attack roll against each 
creature in the line. Each creature in the 
line can only be attacked with one bullet 
from each burst. Each attack roll takes a 
–2 penalty to account for recoil, and its 
attack damage cannot be modified by 
precision damage or damage-increasing 
feats such as Vital Strike. Effects that grant 
concealment, such as fog or smoke, or the 
blur, invisibility, or mirror image spells, do 
not foil an automatic weapon’s line attack.
134
If any of the attack rolls threaten a critical 
hit, confirm the critical for that attack roll 
alone. An automatic weapon misfires only 
if all of the attack rolls made misfire. A 
single attack with an automatic weapon 
fires 10 bullets. An automatic weapon 
cannot fire single bullets that target one 
creature, unless it is select fire and changed 
to single fire mode. When taking a full-
attack action with an automatic weapon, 
you can fire as many bursts in a round as 
you have attacks.
Misfires 
   Firearms that use manufactured 
cartridges can misfire, but when they 
do, they only gain the broken condition. 
A further misfire does not cause these 
firearms to explode. A misfire can be 
cleared by unloading the weapon as a full 
round action, at which point the weapon 
can be loaded and then fired as normal. 
melee  Weapons
There isn’t much to add when it comes 
to melee weapons, there are just so many 
already. This section includes a few new 
melee options that fit our setting and 
military feel without repeating or replacing 
any of the more familiar weapons you may 
be used to.
 
Bayo Net , adva Nced
Cost 15 gp; Weight 1 lb. 
Damage 1d3 (small), 1d4 (medium) 
1d6(large) Critical 19–20 x2 Type piercing 
and slashing Category light, two-handed 
Proficiency martial Weapon Group 
blades, light; close Range 10 ft.
The advanced bayonet is designed 
to fit under the barrel of specifically 
manufactured firearms without preventing 
the firearm from being used normally. The 
blade is made with a sawback that can be 
used for cutting wood and when joined 
with its sheath it forms a wire cutter.
Battle  ceNser
Cost 30 gp; Weight 4 lbs. 
Damage 1d6 (small), 1d8 (medium) 
2d6(large) Critical x2  
Type bludgeoning Category one-handed 
Proficiency martial 
Weapon Group flails Special disarm, trip
   The battle censer is a light flail with 
a specially designed head that can be 
used in religious ceremonies. The striking 
head is finely ornamented and contains 
many small perforated holes, the inside 
is hollow and designed to hold burning 
incense, but other things such as a candle, 
smoke grenade, or bottle could be placed 
inside as well. Anything inside the head 
of the battle censer is considered held or 
attended by the wielder.
battle  Censer
bayonet , adVanCed
135
 
 
e-tool
Cost 1 gp; Weight 2 lbs. 
Damage 1d4 (small), 1d6 (medium) 
1d10(large) Critical x2  
Type slashing Category one-handed 
Proficiency simple Weapon Group close, 
axes
This lightweight folding shovel is a 
quality digging implement that can be 
used to dig hasty cover positions, latrines, 
graves, or berms, it can also double as a 
field-expedient weapon if the need arises. 
It is the mark of a true veteran to have 
earned a confirmed kill with an e-tool.
killa  laNce
Cost 350 gp; Weight 5 lbs. 
Damage 1d4 (small), 1d6 (medium) 
1d10(large) Critical x3  
Type piercing Category two-handed 
Proficiency martial Weapon Group 
polearms Special reach 
This polearm contains an explosive charge 
that deals an additional 2d6 fire damage 
only on the first time it is successfully used 
in an attack, these extra damage dice are 
not multiplied on a critical hit, but are added 
to the total. Any creature that is damaged 
by the killa lance’s fire must also succeed 
at a DC 18 Reflex save or catch fire, taking 
an additional 1d6 points of damage each 
round until the flames are extinguished. 
The weapon cannot be reloaded and must 
be replaced to regain the one time use of 
additional fire damage dice.
chai Naxe
Cost 1050 gp; Weight 14 lbs. 
Damage 3d6 (small), 4d6 (medium) 
6d6(large) Critical x3  
Type slashing Category two-handed 
Proficiency exotic Weapon Group axes 
Special distracting 
Fueled by buzzing alchemical engines, 
chain weapons spin a flexible metal 
loop embedded with metal cutting 
teeth around their edges. The shape of 
the blade and engine housing may vary 
from weapon to weapon, but they all 
operate the same. A chain weapon must 
be activated to be used. It is a standard 
action to activate a chain weapon. The 
chain weapon continues to run constantly 
table : melee  Weapons
Type Cost Dmg (S) Dmg (M) Critical Range Weight Type Special
Light
Bayonet, Advanced 15 gp 1d3 1d4 19-20 x2 10 ft. 1 lbs. P and S
One Handed
Battle Censer 30 gp 1d6 1d8 x2 - 4 lbs. Bludgeoning Disarm, Trip
E-Tool 1 gp 1d4 1d6 x2 - 2 lbs. Slashing See Text
Two Handed
Killa Lance 350 gp 1d4 1d6 x3 - 5 lbs. Piercing Reach
Exotic
Chainaxe 1,050 gp 3d6 4d6 x3 - 14 lbs. Slashing Distracting
Chainsaber 850 gp 1d10 2d6 x2 - 6 lbs. Slashing Distracting
Chainsword 950 gp 2d6 3d6 x2 - 10 lbs. Slashing Distracting
Donkey Puncher, 
Goblin
8 gp 1d8 1d10 19-20 x3 - 8 lbs. B and P Reach
Hatemaul 550 gp 1d10 2d6 x4 - 16 lbs. Bludgeoning See Text
136
after activation, draining its fuel tank 
gradually over time. A chain weapon holds 
one-quarter of a gallon of alchemical 
fuel, which will keep it running for one 
hour, usable in ten-minute increments. A 
dropped chain weapon automatically turns 
off unless it is set down carefully as a move 
action. The buzzing of a chain weapon’s 
alchemical engine is loud and distracting 
(but not deafening), causing anyone 
carrying an activated chain weapon to 
take a –10 penalty on Stealth checks. All 
chain weapons require the Exotic Weapon 
Proficiency (chain weapon) feat.
chai Nsa Ber
Cost 850 gp; Weight 6 lbs. 
Damage 1d10 (small), 2d6 (medium) 
3d6(large) Critical 19–20 x2  
Type slashing Category one-handed 
Proficiency exotic Weapon Group light 
blades Special distracting 
Fueled by buzzing alchemical engines, 
chain weapons spin a flexible metal 
loop embedded with metal cutting 
teeth around their edges. The shape of 
the blade and engine housing may vary 
from weapon to weapon, but they all 
operate the same. A chain weapon must 
be activated to be used. It is a standard 
action to activate a chain weapon. The 
chain weapon continues to run constantly 
after activation, draining its fuel tank 
gradually over time. A chain weapon holds 
one-quarter of a gallon of alchemical 
fuel, which will keep it running for one 
hour, usable in ten-minute increments. A 
dropped chain weapon automatically turns 
off unless it is set down carefully as a move 
action. The buzzing of a chain weapon’s 
alchemical engine is loud and distracting 
(but not deafening), causing anyone 
carrying an activated chain weapon to 
take a –10 penalty on Stealth checks. All 
chain weapons require the Exotic Weapon 
Proficiency (chain weapon) feat.
chai NsWord
Cost 950 gp; Weight 10 lbs. 
Damage 2d6 (small), 3d6 (medium) 
4d6(large) Critical x2  
Type slashing Category two-handed 
Proficiency exotic Weapon Group heavy 
blades Special distracting 
Chain  saber
Chainaxe
137
Fueled by buzzing alchemical engines, 
chain weapons spin a flexible metal 
loop embedded with metal cutting 
teeth around their edges. The shape of 
the blade and engine housing may vary 
from weapon to weapon, but they all 
operate the same. A chain weapon must 
be activated to be used. It is a standard 
action to activate a chain weapon. The 
chain weapon continues to run constantly 
after activation, draining its fuel tank 
gradually over time. A chain weapon holds 
one-quarter of a gallon of alchemical 
fuel, which will keep it running for one 
hour, usable in ten-minute increments. A 
dropped chain weapon automatically turns 
off unless it is set down carefully as a move 
action. The buzzing of a chain weapon’s 
alchemical engine is loud and distracting 
(but not deafening), causing anyone 
carrying an activated chain weapon to 
take a –10 penalty on Stealth checks. All 
chain weapons require the Exotic Weapon 
Proficiency (chain weapon) feat.
doNkey  P uNcher , goBli N
Cost 8 gp; Weight 8 lbs. 
Damage 1d8 (small), 1d10 (medium) 
2d8(large) Critical 19–20 x3  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
two-handed Proficiency exotic Weapon 
Group polearms Special reach 
Less well known than its counterparts the 
Dogslicer and Horsechopper, this unique 
example of goblin engineering consists of 
a heavy stone attached to a pole using a 
long chain. 
hate Maul
Cost 550 gp; Weight 26 lbs. 
Damage 1d10 (small), 2d6 (medium) 
3d6(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning Category two-handed 
Proficiency exotic Weapon Group 
hammers
This masterwork earthbreaker can be 
loaded with a single shotgun shell that 
fires on impact dealing an additional 1d8 
bludgeoning and piercing damage with 
a successful hit. This extra damage is not 
Chains Word
138
multiplied on a critical hit, but is added to 
the total. The weapon can be reloaded like 
any firearm and functions like a normal 
masterwork earthbreaker when unloaded. 
If your Strength is less than 19 (or 17 for a 
Small or smaller hatemaul), you take a –2 
penalty on attacks with it, as you’re unable 
to maneuver its daunting size and weight. 
The hatemaul is a melee weapon but some 
ranged weapon enchantments can be 
applied as well.
firearms
These firearms are an addition to the 
weapons a single character can equip. 
You will notice that some weapons do 
not have a damage listed, these deal 
different amounts of damage based on 
their ammunition, and do not change their 
damage values based on the size of the 
character wielding the weapon.  
table : firearms  Weapons
Type Cost Dmg 
(S)
Dmg 
(M)
Dmg 
(L) Critical Range Misfire Capacity Weight Type Special
Light
Semi-Automatic 
Handgun 1,000 gp 1d6 1d8 2d6 x4 20 ft. 1 7 2 lbs. B and P Light
Tranq Pistol 1,000 gp 1 1 1 x1 20 ft. - 1 2 lbs. Piercing See Text
One Handed
Cattlemen’s Revolver 1,000 gp 2d3 2d4 3d4 x4 20 ft. 1 6 4 lbs. B and P
Two Handed
Anti-Materiel Rifle 1,200 gp 2d10 2d12 3d12 x4 180 ft. 1 1 25 lbs. B and P Ignores Object 
Hardness
Grenade Launcher 1,300 gp - - - x2 40 ft. 1 1 5 lbs. - See Text
Infantry Rifle, Lever 
Action 1,000 gp 1d8 1d10 2d8 x4 80 ft. 1 5 10 lbs. B and P -
Infantry Rifle, Select 
Fire 1,500 gp 1d8 1d10 2d8 x4 80 ft. 1-2 30 10 lbs. B and P Automatic
Modern Light 
Machine Gun 1,500 gp 2d6 2d8 3d8 x4 100 ft. 1-2 belted 27 lbs. B and P Automatic
Trench Sweeper 1,000 gp 1d6 1d8 2d6 x2 20 ft. 1-2 5 8 lbs. B and P Scatter
Zipgun, Crude 75 gp 1d4 1d6 1d10 x4 20 ft. 1-2 1 2 lbs. B and P Fragile
Zipgun, Take Ju 750 gp 1d4 1d6 1d10 x4 20 ft. 1 1 2 lbs. B and P See Text
Exotic
Big Iron Revolver 1,000 gp 1d8 1d10 2d8 x4 30 ft. 1 5 5 lbs. B and P
Coach Gun 700 gp 1d6 1d8 2d6 x2 10 ft. 1 2 4 lbs. B and P Scatter
Minigat 3,000 gp 2d6 2d8 3d8 x4 100 ft. 1-2 belted 36 lbs. B and P Automatic, See Text
Submachine Gun 800 gp 1d6 1d8 2d6 x4 40 ft. 1-2 30 6 lbs. B and P Automatic
139
seMi-auto Matic  haNdgu N
Cost 1,000 gp; Weight 2 lbs. 
Damage 1d6(small) 1d8(medium) 
2d6(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
light Proficiency firearms Range 20 
Misfire 1 Capacity 7
   With enough knockdown power to put 
a man in his grave and a slim profile, this 
tried and true mechanical marvel has been 
the final word in sidearms throughout 
many major wars.
 
tra Nq P istol
Cost 1,500 gp; Weight 2 lbs. 
Damage 1(small) 1(medium) 1(large) 
Critical x1  
Type piercing Category light Proficiency 
firearms Range 20 Capacity 1
A specially designed single shot handgun 
with an integrated suppressor, the tranq 
pistol only fires unique tranq ammunition. 
The target of a successful hit must make a 
Fortitude save or become unconscious for 
1d4 minutes. The lightweight rounds are 
extremely small and do only one point of 
lethal damage, and are often mistaken for 
a biting insect. A creature who has been 
rendered unconscious from a tranq pistol 
can be awoken by shouting and vigorous 
shaking. When the victim wakes up their 
memories are confused and unclear and 
they often believe they had fallen asleep. 
The wielder of a tranq pistol may, as a 
full round action, choose to target a vital 
area where the tranq ammo will rush to 
the bloodstream faster, this imparts a –4 
penalty to hit, but raises the save DC by +4.
Common tranq ammunition is 3,000 gp 
for 5 rounds, has a Fort DC of 16, and can 
be crafted with a DC 20 Craft (alchemy) 
check. Rare tranq ammunition costs 10,000 
gp for 5 rounds, has a Fort DC of 20 and 
can be crafted with a DC 30 Craft (alchemy) 
check.
cattle MeN’s revolver
Cost 1,000 gp; Weight 2 lbs. 
Damage 2d3(small) 2d4(medium) 
3d4(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
one handed Proficiency firearms Range 
20 Misfire 1 Capacity 6
Not a fancy gun for showy gunslingers, 
this is a dependable tool for an honest 
worker. This revolver holds fewer rounds 
than the standard revolver but has slightly 
higher damage on average and is very 
reliable.
aNti -M ateriel  riFle
Cost 1,200 gp; Weight 25 lbs. 
Damage 2d10(small) 2d12(medium) 
3d12(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
two-handed Proficiency firearms Range 
180 ft. Misfire 1 Capacity 1 Special 
ignores object hardness
In the realm of accuracy and range this 
tranq  pistol
semi -automati C
handgun
tranq  pistol
140
single-fire bolt action rifle has no equal. 
While it was designed to disable vehicles at 
a distance, it has seen many advantageous 
applications in the theater of war. 
gre Nade  lau Ncher
Cost 1,300 gp; Weight 5 lbs. 
Damage varies (dependent on 
ammunition) Critical x2  
Type none Category two-handed 
Proficiency firearm Range 40 ft. Misfire 1 
Capacity 1  
The grenade launcher is used to 
fire conventional grenades at targets 
with greater range and precision. The 
grenade must first be fitted inside a sabot 
containing a propellant charge (empty 
sabots cost 10 gp) before it is available to 
be used for grenade launcher ammunition. 
A creature that is successfully attacked with 
this firearm does not get an initial save from 
the damage of its grenade ammunition, but 
any additional creatures caught in the blast 
receive a saving throw as normal. 
anti -material  rifle
grenade  laun Cher
iNF aNtry  riFle , lever  actio N
Cost 1,000 gp; Weight 10 lbs. 
Damage 1d8(small) 1d10(medium) 
2d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
two-handed Proficiency firearm Range 80 
ft. Misfire 1 Capacity 5  
The lever action infantry rifle is the 
pinnacle of firearms design. Accurate, 
reliable, and able to put rounds on target 
to devastating effect. The box magazine 
can be loaded with a stripper clip through 
the open action on top, or quickly ejected 
and replaced with a fresh loaded magazine, 
and it comes ready to be equipped with an 
advanced bayonet and weapon sling. 
iNF aNtry  riFle , select  F ire
Cost 1,500 gp; Weight 10 lbs. 
Damage 1d8(small) 1d10(medium) 
2d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
two-handed Proficiency firearm Range 80 
ft. Misfire 1–2 Capacity 30  
141
This experimental new design offers 
increased capability on the battlefield, at 
the expense of increased cost and dubious 
reliability. As a free action the wielder may 
choose to switch the weapon from semi-
automatic to fully-automatic, when in 
fully-automatic mode the weapon gains 
the automatic quality and fires ten rounds 
per attack, making a line attack. Learning 
from its predecessor, the select fire rifle is 
pre-equipped to accept a weapon sling, 
advanced bayonet, and muffler can. These 
weapons are rare but they can dynamically 
change a fight and be a potent force 
multiplier.  
Moder N light  M achi Ne guN
Cost 1,500 gp; Weight 27 lbs. 
Damage 2d6(small) 2d8(medium) 
3d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
two-handed Proficiency firearms Range 
100 ft.  
Misfire 1–2 Capacity belted Special 
automatic 
This fully automatic machine gun is a 
force multiplier that will act as the anchor 
point to many balanced squad loadouts. 
tre Nch  sWee Per
Cost 1,000 gp; Weight 8 lbs. 
Damage 1d6(small) 1d8(medium) 
2d6(large) Critical x2  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
two-handed Proficiency firearm Range 20 
ft. Misfire 1–2 Capacity 5 Special scatter
A combat shotgun designed for the 
front lines, the trench sweeper shoots in 
a 30-foot cone when firing pellets, has 
a 20-foot range increment when firing 
a bullet(slugs), and it comes ready to be 
equipped with an advanced bayonet and 
weapon sling.
A trench sweeper uses manufactured 
cartridges (loaded with either a slug or 
pellets) as ammunition. 
ziPgu N, crude
Cost 75 gp; Weight 2 lbs. 
Damage 1d4(small) 1d6(medium) 
1d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
light Proficiency firearms Range 20 ft. 
Misfire 1–2 Capacity 1 Special fragile
A simple tube fired by pulling a string 
that protrudes from its base, these 1-shot 
cylindrical pistols must be completely 
disassembled requiring a DC 10 Craft 
(firearms) check and 5 undisturbed 
infantry  rifle  - leVer aCtion
modern  light  maChine  gun
142
minutes to reload. When this weapon 
misfires, it explodes.
ziPgu N, take  jū
Cost 750 gp; Weight 2 lbs. 
Damage 1d4(small) 1d6(medium) 
1d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
light Proficiency firearms Range 20 ft. 
Misfire 1 Capacity 1  
A simple yet well made tube gun fired 
by pulling the firing ring that extends on a 
string from its base, these 1-shot cylindrical 
pistols must be completely disassembled 
requiring a DC 10 Craft (firearms) check 
and 5 undisturbed minutes to reload, 
and each one contains a socket for the 
application of alchemical treatments such 
as Oil of Silence that is released when the 
weapon is charged by pulling the rope on 
the rear. The pistol comes wrapped in a silk 
handkerchief and can be stored 6 to a cloth 
bandolier.
Big  iro N revolver
Cost 1,000 gp; Weight 5 lbs. 
Damage 1d8(small) 1d10(medium) 
2d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
one handed Proficiency exotic Range 30 
Misfire 1 Capacity 5
The big iron is a hand cannon of 
legendary proportions. A five shot revolver 
that loads rifle ammunition, it does 
massive damage at the cost of incredible 
recoil and kick. This big smoke wagon is a 
heavy chunk of steel that requires practice 
to be able to use efficiently.
coach  guN
Cost 700 gp; Weight 4 lbs. 
Damage 1d6(small) 1d8(medium) 
2d6(large) Critical x2  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
one-handed Proficiency exotic Range 10 
ft. Misfire 1 Capacity 2 Special scatter
A coach gun is a compact double barrel 
shotgun, modified with a cut down barrel 
and stock to be easily concealed, however 
it is too large to use in one hand without 
special training; thus, it is an exotic 
weapon. A character can use a coach 
gun two-handed as a standard firearm. 
The coach gun’s barrels can be fired 
independently as separate attacks, or both 
can be fired at once as a standard action 
(the attack action). A double shot that fires 
slugs is inaccurate, and takes a –4 penalty 
on both attacks. A double shot that fires 
slugs targets only a single creature and 
increases the damage of each barrel to 2d6 
points (Small) or 2d8 points (Medium) for a 
total of 4d6 or 4d8 points.
A coach gun uses manufactured 
cartridges (loaded with either a slug or 
pellets) as ammunition.
tren Ch sWeeper
big  iron  reVolVer
143
MiNi gat
Cost 3,000 gp; Weight 57 lbs. 
Damage 2d6(small) 2d8(medium) 
3d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category  
two-handed Proficiency exotic Range  
100 ft.  
Misfire 1–2 Capacity belted Special 
automatic 
A chopped down version of a weapon 
designed to be mounted on vehicles, 
this multi barrel machine gun is capable 
of laying down enormous amounts 
of terrifying destruction. Due to its 
tremendous recoil, the mini gat cannot 
be fired during the same turn that you 
move using a move action, however when 
making a full-attack action, the wielder 
of a mini gat may make one extra attack 
with it. This extra attack uses the wielder’s 
highest attack bonus, plus any modifiers 
appropriate to the situation. If your 
Strength is less than 19 (or 17 for a Small or 
smaller mini gat), you take an additional –2 
penalty on attacks with it, as you’re unable 
to maneuver the weapon’s daunting size 
and weight. The mini gat comes with a 
drum capable of holding 200 rounds of 
belted ammunition.
suBM achi Ne guN
Cost 800 gp; Weight 6 lbs. 
Damage 1d6(small) 1d8(medium) 
2d6(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
one-handed Proficiency exotic Range 
20 ft. Misfire 1–2 Capacity 30 Special 
automatic 
A submachine gun is a compact 
automatic weapon, however it is too large 
to use in one hand without special training; 
thus, it is an exotic weapon. A character 
can use a submachine gun two-handed as 
a standard firearm.
the  mini  gat
144
thro Wn Weapons
Grenades are a staple of any soldier, 
able to quickly turn the tide of a fight. 
Making an attack with a grenade is similar 
to throwing a splash weapon. Grenades 
are a ranged weapon that explodes on 
impact, dealing damage to its target and 
nearby creatures or objects. To attack with 
a grenade, make a ranged touch attack 
against the target. Grenades require no 
weapon proficiency, so you don’t take 
the –4 nonproficiency penalty. A hit deals 
direct hit damage to the target, and if they 
fail the save, damage to all creatures within 
a designated radius. If the target is Large 
or larger, you choose one of its squares 
and the damage affects creatures within 
the designated radius of that square. 
Creatures with multiple squares only take 
grenade damage once. Grenades cannot 
deal precision-based damage (such as the 
damage from the rogue’s sneak attack class 
feature). You can also choose to target a 
specific grid intersection. Treat this as a 
ranged attack against AC 5. However, if 
you target a grid intersection, creatures 
in the designated area are subject to a 
saving throw to avoid or reduce damage, 
and the direct hit damage is not dealt 
to any creature. You can’t target a grid 
intersection occupied by a creature, such 
as a Large or larger creature; in this case, 
you’re aiming at the creature.
 
Flash BaNg gre Nade
Price 350 gp; Weight 3 lbs. 
   This metal cylinder holds a small charge 
of flash powder and alchemical agents. The 
grenade detonates on contact releasing a 
loud report and blinding flash that staggers 
all creatures for 1 round and blinds for 1d4 
rounds in a 10-foot-radius burst (Fortitude 
DC 18 negates). You throw a flashbang 
grenade as if it were a splash weapon. 
Creatures behind improved cover gain a 
save bonus to this fortitude save the same 
as their normal bonuses to reflex saves.  
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30 
Frag MeNtatio N gre Nade
Price 350 gp; Weight 3 lbs. 
   This thick metal sphere is finely grooved 
with furrowed lines and holds a compact 
charge of potent explosive. The grenade 
detonates on contact releasing a shower 
of metal fragments that deal 4d6 
bludgeoning and piercing damage in a 
5-foot-radius burst (Reflex DC 18 halves). 
You throw a fragmentation grenade as if it 
were a splash weapon. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30
table : thro Wn Weapons
Type Cost Dmg 
(S)
Dmg 
(M) Critical Range Area Weight Type Special
Flashbang 
Grenade 350 gp N/A N/A x2 10 ft. 10 ft. 
radius 3 lbs. — Stunned 1d4 Rounds
Fragmentation 
Grenade 350 gp 4d6 4d6 x2 10 ft. 5 ft. 
radius 3 lbs. B and P Splash
Gas Grenade 350 gp N/A N/A x2 10 ft. 10 ft. 
radius 3 lbs. — Opaque Smoke per fog 
floud
Incendiary 
Grenade 350 gp 6d6 6d6 x2 10 ft. 5 ft. 
square 3 lbs. Fire Duration 1d6 rounds
Smoke Grenade 350 gp N/A N/A x2 10 ft. 10 ft. 
radius 3 lbs. — Opaque Smoke per Fog 
Cloud
145
gas  gre Nade
Price 350 gp; Weight 3 lbs. 
This metal cylinder holds a charge of 
noxious alchemical agents that react and 
ignite to create a volume of thick foul 
smelling dark green smoke. The cloud 
functions as fog cloud, continually filling 
an area in a 10-foot-radius for 1d6 rounds. 
Any creature in this area who breathes 
the smoke is sickened for 1d4 minutes 
(Fortitude DC 18 negates). You throw a gas 
grenade as if it were a splash weapon. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30  
iNce Ndiary  gre Nade
Price 350 gp; Weight 3 lbs. 
This metal cylinder holds a volume of 
highly volatile alchemical reagents. The 
grenade ignites on contact releasing 
intense flames that burn all creatures and 
objects in a single 5-foot-square with 6d6 
fire damage for 1d6 rounds (Reflex DC 18 
halves). You throw an incendiary grenade 
as if it were a splash weapon. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30
sMoke  gre Nade
Price 350 gp; Weight 3 lbs. 
This metal cylinder holds a charge of 
alchemical agents that react and ignite 
to create a large column of colored 
smoke. The cloud functions as fog cloud, 
continually filling an area in a 10-foot-
radius for 10 minutes. Smoke grenades 
come in many colors and can also have 
their color changed by such effects as 
prestidigitation before or after they are 
thrown. You throw a smoke grenade as if it 
were a splash weapon. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30
flashbang  grenade
 smoke  grenade
flashbang  ammo smoke  ammo

146
siege  Weapons
Mortar  tuBe
Cost 15,000 gp; Weight 91 lbs.  
Damage –(small) –(medium) –(large) 
Critical x4  
Type none Category mounted Proficiency 
firearms Range 300 ft. (50 ft. min.) Misfire 1 
Capacity 1
   This compact and man portable siege 
weapon consists of a sturdy launching 
tube, a heavy baseplate, a set of bipod 
legs, and a simple sight for aiming and 
estimating distance. It can be broken down 
for transport or set up for use as a full round 
action. Like other indirect fire siege engines, 
this weapon is fired by making a targeting 
check for an indirect attack (DC 20). Mortar 
tubes require a crew of 2, loading and firing 
are both full round actions. 
fragmentation  grenade
 inCendiary  grenade
aP M ortar  shell
Price 3,600 gp; Weight 6 lbs. 
   Special ammunition for mortar tubes, 
the anti-personnel round is designed to 
fragment when it explodes dealing 6d6 
bludgeoning and piercing damage to all 
creatures and objects inside a 30-foot radius. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30
iNce Ndiary  M ortar  shell
   Price 3,600 gp; Weight 6 lbs. 
Special ammunition for mortar tubes, this 
round produces intense flames that burn all 
creatures and objects within 20-foot radius 
with 8d6 fire damage. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30
fragmentation  ammo inCendiary  ammo

147
explosi Ves
Explosives are a special, rare, and 
expensive weapon. Due to the incredible 
amount of damage they can deal it 
is reasonable to assume they are not 
commonly available to most players 
and are issued or available to purchase 
on an as-needed basis. In some regions 
explosives may be illegal or only 
available to people with special permits. 
Explosives deal combined fire and force 
damage, and ignore the hardness of 
items and structures. Damage amounts 
will sometimes be listed as the average 
amount to save time, using this is optional. 
Black  P oWder  keg
Price 1,000 gp; Weight 5 lbs. 
   Black powder is the main chemical 
propellant in nearly all firearms that 
enable them to function, and in larger 
quantities this chemical compound can 
be quite devastatingly destructive on its 
own. A single charge (or dose) of black 
powder is enough to power a single shot 
from most one-handed and two-handed 
firearms, while 10 charges are required to 
fire a cannon. Black powder is often stored 
and transported in kegs (which hold 100 
charges), but in this quantity the powder 
itself becomes dangerous. Exposure to fire, 
electricity, or a misfire explosion causes 
table : siege  Weapons
Type Cost Dmg 
(S)
Dmg 
(M) Critical Range Area Misfire Capacity Weight Type
Mortar Tube 15,000 gp — — x4
300 ft. 
(50 ft. 
min.)
- 1 1 91 lbs. —
AP Mortar Shell 3,600 gp — 6d6 — — 30 ft. 
radius — -— 6 lbs. B and P
Incendiary Mortar 
Shell 3,600 gp -— 8d6 — — 30 ft. 
radius -— -— 6 lbs. Fire
table : explosi Ves
Type Cost Dmg 
(S) Dmg (M) Critical Range Area Misfire Capacity Weight Type
Black Powder 
Keg 1,000 gp — 5d6 — — 20 ft. 
radius — — 5 lbs. Fire
Dynamite Stick 2,000 gp — 10d6 — 10 ft. 30 ft. 
radius — — 1 lbs. —
Dynamite 
Bundle 14,000 gp — 250(70d6) — — 60 ft. 
radius — — 7 lbs. —
Compound 
Explosive Brick 28,000 gp — — 
500(140d6) — — 20 ft. 
radius — — 3 lbs. —
Shaped Charge 28,000 gp — — 
500(140d6) — — 30 ft. 
cone — — 3 lbs. —
Breaching 
Charge 14,000 gp — 250(70d6) — — 5 ft. 
square — — 5 lbs. —
Law of Fire 1,500 gp — 10d6 x2 800 ft. 20 ft. 
radius 0 1 10 lbs. Fire
RPGL 3,000 gp — 10d6 x2 120 ft. Line 0 1 10 lbs. Electricity
148
black powder to explode—a single keg 
that explodes in this manner deals 5d6 
points of fire damage to anyone within a 
20-foot burst (DC 15 Reflex half ). Storing 
black powder in a powder magazine or 
powder horn protects the powder from 
explosion. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 20 
dyNaMite
Price 2,000 gp/stick; Weight 1 lb. 
   Dynamite is formed by taking extremely 
volatile and dangerous alchemical 
reagents, and stabilizing them in a 
compound that resembles chalk. This 
mixture is then carefully packed into stiff 
paper tubes that have been coated in 
wax. The preferred method of detonating 
dynamite is a pressure fuse, although a 
black powder fuse can be used as well. 
Exposure to fire, electricity, or a misfire 
explosion causes dynamite to explode—a 
single stick that explodes in this manner 
deals 10d6 points of damage to anyone 
within a 30-foot burst (DC 20 Reflex half ) 
additional sticks each add another 10d6 
points of damage, and add 5ft to the radius 
of the explosion. A bundle of dynamite 
contains seven sticks, has a 60-foot burst, 
and does 250(70d6) points of damage. 
Storing dynamite in a powder magazine 
protects the dynamite from accidental 
detonation. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30 
coMP ou Nd exPlosive
Price 28,000 gp/brick; Weight 3 lbs. 
   Compound explosive is a product of the 
most current developments in alchemy. 
The highly volatile reagents have been 
tamed, stabilized, and formed into a clay 
like hard putty. The compound explosive 
is immune to premature detonation by 
fire and misfire explosions, in fact the 
only controlled method of detonating 
compound explosives is a pressure fuse, 
although electricity damage and the 
explosion of dynamite or other charges 
of compound explosive will also cause it 
to explode. When a brick of compound 
explosive is detonated it deals 500(140d6) 
points of damage to anyone within a 20-
foot burst (DC 25 Reflex half ). A 1/10th of 
brick of compound explosive can be used 
to destroy nearly any lock or hinge on a 
door. Combining bricks adds to the total 
damage but each additional brick only 
adds 5ft to the explosion radius, up to five 
bricks. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 40
 
sha Ped  charge
Price 28,000 gp; Weight 3 lbs. 
   This is a specially designed application 
of compound explosive inside a shallow 
metal cylinder. The compound explosive 
is immune to premature detonation 
by fire or misfire explosions, in fact the 
only controlled method of detonating 
compound explosives is a pressure fuse, 
although the explosion of dynamite or 
other charges of compound explosive will 
also cause it to explode. When a shaped 
charge is detonated it deals 500(140d6) 
points of damage to anyone within a 30-
foot cone (DC 25 Reflex half ). Combining 
shaped charges does not add to the 
total damage or to the explosion radius, 
although overlapping cones of explosion 
will have their damage added together 
before it is applied . 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 40 
Breachi Ng charge
Price 14,000 gp; Weight 5 lbs. 
   This device is used to create instant 
doors in nearly any structure or surface. A 
breaching charge contains small amounts 
of carefully shaped and arrayed compound 
explosives glued to a stiff sheet of hide 
that is rolled up for easy transportation. 
To use, the sheet is unrolled exposing 
149
alchemical adhesives to the air causing 
them to activate. The sheet is then placed 
on a surface such as a door or wall, and 
the safety pin is removed from the built 
in pressure fuse, once the operator has 
moved a safe distance, they may pull 
the string attached to the pressure fuse 
causing the breaching charge to detonate. 
A breaching charge deals 250(70d6) points 
of damage to anything in a 5-foot square 
(DC 25 Reflex half ) that it is placed against, 
almost always leaving a 3ft wide by 5ft 
tall hole. Breaching charges cannot be 
combined with other explosives, placing a 
breaching charge is a full round action and 
activating it is a standard action. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 40
laun Chers
laW oF F ire
Cost 1,500 gp; Weight 10 lbs.  
Damage 10d6(medium) Critical x2  
Type fire Category two-handed 
Proficiency firearms Weapon Group 
explosives Range 800 ft. Misfire 0 
Capacity 1  
Activating the law of fire with a standard 
action, this launcher tube with a single 
alchemical rocket places an explosive 
payload on target dealing 10d6 points of 
fire damage to anyone within a 20-foot 
burst (DC 18 Reflex half ).
 
 
table : V ehi Cle Weapons
Type Cost Dmg 
(S)
Dmg 
(M)
Dmg 
(L) Critical Range Misfire Capacity Type Special
Autocannon, 
Heavy 40,000 gp 8d6 10d6 12d6 x4 160 ft. — 60 B and P Automatic —
Autocannon, Light 35,000 gp 4d8 6d8 8d8 x4 120 ft. 120 B and P Automatic
Big Gat 30,000 gp 3d8 4d8 6d8 x4 100 ft. 1-2 belted B and P Automatic
Buzzsaw 1,380 gp — —  2d12+10 x3 — — — Slashing —
Excavator Claw 1,308 gp — — 1d8+10 x3 — — — B and P Grab, See Text
Grenade Machine 
Gun 13,000 gp — — — x2 100 ft. 1-5 belted -— Automatic, See 
Text
Harpoon Launcher 1,500 gp — — 2d6 x3 50 ft. — 1 Piercing Grapple, See Text
Heavy 
Flamethrower 3,200 gp — — 4d8 x4 60 ft. — 6 Fire —
Heavy Grenade 
Launcher 5,200 gp — — — x2 60 ft. 1 1 — See Text
Heavy Machine 
Gun 15,000 gp 2d8 3d8 4d8 x4 100 ft. 1-2 belted B and P Automatic
Net Launcher 1,500 gp — — — -— 50 ft. — 1 — See Text
Rocket Pod 3,250 gp — — 5d6 x2 400 ft. — 3 Fire —
Wreckin Ball 3,010 gp — — 2d8+10 x3 — — — Bludgeoning Ignores Object 
Hardness
150
rPgl
Cost 3,000 gp; Weight 10 lbs. 
Damage 10d6(medium) Critical x2  
Type fire Category two-handed 
Proficiency firearms Weapon Group 
explosives Range 120 ft. Misfire 0 
Capacity 1  
   This launcher tube may be activated as a 
standard action firing a single alchemical 
rocket which trails a wire behind it in flight 
and then triggers its stored charge in a 120 
ft. line dealing 10d6 points of electricity 
damage to each creature within its area 
(DC 18 Reflex half ). The RPGL rocket sets 
fire to combustibles and damages objects 
in its path. It can melt metals with a low 
melting point, such as lead, gold, copper, 
silver, or bronze. If the damage caused to 
an interposing barrier shatters or breaks 
through it, the rocket may continue 
beyond the barrier if its range permits; 
otherwise, it stops at the barrier.
Vehi Cle  mounted  
Weapons
Some weapons are so large that they 
cannot be carried by a single person. 
These weapons must be transported by, 
and often operated from a vehicle. These 
implements come in two new weapon 
categories: hardpoint and mounted. 
Hardpoint weapons must be attached to 
a vehicle hardpoint to function and are 
activated from inside the vehicle, while 
mounted weapons must be used on a 
suitable weapon mount, such as a turret 
or tripod where they can be operated by a 
gunner.
autoca NN oN, heavy
Cost 40,000 gp; Weight 850 lbs. 
Damage 8d6(small) 10d6(medium) 
12d6(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
mounted Proficiency firearms Range 160 
ft. Misfire 1 Capacity 60 Special automatic
The heavy autocannon is a rapid 
fire cannon and integrated turret that 
automatically loads ammunition from 
the internal magazine mounted in 
its base. It can be installed in a fixed 
stationary position as part of defensive 
emplacements, or on a vehicle that 
is at least 16 squares in size. Firing an 
autocannon is a ranged attack that requires 
a full-attack action. When the magazine is 
empty, it must be replaced requiring a full 
round action before it can be used again, 
this reloading time cannot be reduced in 
any way. 
autoca NN oN, light
Cost 35,000 gp; Weight 480 lbs. 
Damage 4d8(small) 6d8(medium) 
8d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
mounted Proficiency firearms Range 
120 ft. Misfire 1 Capacity 120 Special 
automatic
The light autocannon is a rapid fire 
cannon and integrated turret that 
automatically loads ammunition from 
the internal magazine mounted in 
its base. It can be installed in a fixed 
stationary position as part of defensive 
emplacements, or on a vehicle that 
is at least 10 squares in size. Firing an 
autocannon is a ranged attack that requires 
a full-attack action. When the magazine is 
empty, it must be replaced requiring a full 
round action before it can be used again, 
this reloading time cannot be reduced in 
any way.  
Big  gat
Cost 30,000 gp; Weight 127 lbs. 
Damage 3d8(small) 4d8(medium) 
6d8(large) Critical x4  
151
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
mounted Proficiency firearms Range 100 
ft. Misfire 1-2 Capacity belted Special 
automatic
This massive heavy machine gun fires 
belted .50 caliber ammunition at incredible 
speeds for large amounts of damage.
Buzzsa W
Cost 1,380 gp; Weight 55 lbs. 
Damage 2d12+10 Critical x3  
Type Slashing Category hardpoint 
Proficiency simple 
When you really need to rip and tear 
there is nothing quite like a buzzsaw. 
This menacing spinning circular blade is 
covered in vicious teeth mounted on the 
end of a manipulator arm. The buzzsaw 
also bypasses vehicle hardness.
 
excavator  cla W
Cost 1,308 gp; Weight 55 lbs. 
Damage 1d8+10 Critical x3  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
hardpoint Proficiency simple Special grab 
An excavator claw is a steel bucket with 
teeth and an opposing pair of curved 
talons that is mounted on the end of a 
stout manipulator arm. The claw can be 
used to loosen or tumble earth or earthen 
ramparts (10 cubic feet per minute). It 
also smashes rock (10 cubic feet per hour). 
Creatures struck with this weapon may 
be grappled as a free action with its grab 
ability.  
gre Nade  M achi Ne guN
Cost 13,000 gp; Weight 95 lbs. 
Damage 0 Critical x2  
Type none Category mounted 
Proficiency firearms Range 100 ft. Misfire 
1-5 Capacity belted Special automatic
The grenade machine gun is a fully 
automatic belt fed grenade launcher. 
While not especially reliable, the amount 
of devastation it can produce on the 
battlefield is awe-inspiring, much like 
the devastation to the coin purse of 
anyone trying to feed it. Like all grenade 
launchers each grenade must first be fitted 
inside a sabot containing a propellant 
charge(empty sabots cost 10 gp) before it 
is available to be used for grenade launcher 
ammunition. A creature that is successfully 
attacked with this firearm does not get an 
initial save from the damage of its grenade 
ammunition, but any additional creatures 
caught in the blast receive a saving throw 
as normal. 
har Poo N lau Ncher
Cost 1,500 gp; Weight 46 lbs. 
Damage 2d6 Critical x3  
Type piercing Category hardpoint or 
mounted Proficiency simple Range 50 ft. 
Capacity 1 Special grapple 
Upon a successful hit against a vehicle, 
the two vehicles are considered Grappled, 
this follows the rules for Grappling and 
Boarding for Sailing Vessels.
heavy  F la Methro Wer
Cost 3,200 gp; Weight 100 lbs. 
Damage 4d8 Critical x4  
Type fire Category hardpoint or 
mounted Proficiency firearms 
Range 60 ft. Capacity 6 
This large weapon can be mounted to a 
turret or hardpoint on vehicles. The device 
consists of an articulated nozzle with a 
small pilot flame inside the shrouded 
muzzle, a thick tube runs to internally 
mounted pressurized fuel tanks.
When activated the fuel is propelled 
forth in a blazing stream of intense flame. 
A flamethrower with full tanks is capable 
of unleashing up to 6 charges of ignited 
oil, to devastating effect. When using 
a flamethrower, the wielder projects a 
60-foot-long line of fire, attempting a 
separate attack roll against each creature 
within the line. Each attack roll takes a –2 
152
penalty, and its attack damage cannot be 
modified by precision damage or damage-
increasing feats such as Vital Strike. Effects 
that grant concealment, such as fog or 
smoke, or the blur, invisibility, or mirror 
image spells, do not foil this line attack. 
If any of the rolls threatens a critical hit, 
the wielder confirms the critical for that 
roll alone. All affected creatures take 4d8 
points of damage, and any creature hit by 
the flaming stream must also succeed at 
a DC 20 Reflex save or catch fire, taking 
an additional 2d6 points of damage each 
round until the flames are extinguished. A 
burning creature can attempt a new save 
as a full-round action, and dropping and 
rolling on the ground grants a +2 bonus on 
this save. The tanks have hardness 10 and 5 
hit points, and if the tank is ruptured in the 
presence of any adjacent flame (including 
the device’s own gas igniter), a mighty 
conflagration erupts, the wielder takes 6d8 
points of fire damage, and all creatures 
within a 20-foot radius take 3d8 points of 
fire damage (Reflex DC 20 for half ).  
heavy  gre Nade  lau Ncher
Cost 5,200 gp; Weight 65 lbs. 
Damage 0 Critical x2  
Type none Category hardpoint or 
mounted Proficiency firearms Range 60 ft. 
Misfire 1 Capacity 1 
The heavy grenade launcher is used to 
allow vehicle operators to fire conventional 
grenades at targets with greatly increased 
range and precision. The grenade must 
first be fitted inside a sabot containing a 
propellant charge(empty sabots cost 10 
gp) before it is available to be used for 
grenade launcher ammunition. A creature 
that is successfully attacked with this 
firearm does not get an initial save from 
the damage of its grenade ammunition, 
but any additional creatures caught in the 
blast receive a saving throw as normal.
heavy  M achi Ne guN
Cost 15,000 gp; Weight 54 lbs.
Damage 2d8(small) 3d8(medium) 
4d8(large) Critical x4  
Type bludgeoning and piercing Category 
mounted Proficiency firearms Range 100 
ft. Misfire 1-2 Capacity belted Special 
automatic
The heavy machine gun fires belted .50 
caliber ammunition through a single heavy 
barrel for devastating sustained fire.
Net  lau Ncher
Cost 1,500 gp; Weight 55 lbs.
Category hardpoint or mounted 
Proficiency simple Range 50 ft. Capacity 1 
When you launch a net, you make a 
ranged touch attack against your target. A 
net’s maximum range is 50 feet. If you hit, 
the target is entangled.
If you control the trailing rope by 
succeeding on an opposed Strength check 
while holding it (10+1d20), the entangled 
creature can move only within the limits 
that the rope allows. If the entangled 
creature attempts to cast a spell, it must 
make a concentration check with a DC 
of 15 + the spell’s level or be unable to 
cast the spell. An entangled creature can 
escape with a DC 20 Escape Artist check 
(a full-round action). The net has 5 hit 
points and can be burst with a DC 25 
Strength check (also a full-round action). 
A net launcher is useful only against large, 
medium, and small creatures. The net 
must be folded and properly loaded in the 
launcher to be used effectively, this is a full 
round action that must be performed by a 
person outside the vehicle.
rocket  P od
Cost 3,250 gp; Weight 90 lbs.
Damage 5d6 Critical x2  
Type fire Category hardpoint or mounted 
Proficiency firearms Range 400 ft. 
Capacity 3 
153
This cluster of three alchemical rockets 
stored inside launcher tubes is capable of 
making three individual attacks before it 
needs to be entirely replaced. Activating 
the pod is a standard action that fires a 
single rocket up to 400 ft. Resolve this like 
a 5th level fireball dealing 5d6 points of fire 
damage (Reflex DC 18 for half ).
Wrecki N B all
Cost 3,010 gp; Weight 86 lbs.
Damage 2d8+10 Critical x3  
Type bludgeoning Category hardpoint 
Proficiency simple Special ignores object 
hardness
This spiked steel and adamantine ball 
is on the end of a short chain, and is 
especially good at destroying objects 
and structures. It is attached via a short 
arm that mounts to a vehicle hardpoint 
allowing it to be spun quickly, it can also 
be suspended from the cable of a vehicle 
crane allowing strikes to occur at greater 
distance.
Weapon  modifi Cations
Time in the field has revealed needs, and 
necessity is the mother of invention. Our 
soldiers and engineers have come up with 
quite a few modifications to their weapons 
based on the requirements called for by 
boots on the ground. Some of these are 
near ubiquitous, for example you would be 
hard pressed to find a rifle in service that 
doesn’t have a weapon sling. 
Bayo Net  lug
Modification to Two Handed Firearms 
Cost 10 gp; Weight —
A barrel mounted collar and a welded 
on lug designed to mount and retain an 
advanced bayonet.
 
 
cho Nky  gri P
Modification to Small and Medium 
Firearms 
Cost 2,000 gp; Weight —
A permanent modification, this collection 
of parts modify an existing weapon to 
be wielded by a larger creature without 
penalty, converting the controls to be 
adeptly used by bigger hands. A small 
sized firearm can now be used by medium 
creatures, and a medium sized firearm can 
now be used by large creatures.
FiNe-B ala Nced
Modification to Light and One Handed 
Firearms 
Cost 2,000 gp; Weight —
Fine-balanced weapons are balanced to 
be wielded in tandem. 
Only ranged weapons can be fine-
balanced. When wielding two weapons 
with the fine-balanced modification, 
reduce any two-weapon fighting penalties 
by –1 for both weapons. The weapons 
need to be the same type, and both must 
have the fine-balanced modification.
guN P late
Modification to Two Handed Firearms 
Cost 100 gp; Weight 5 lbs.
This metal panel attaches to the front of 
the receiver of a two handed firearm and 
has a vertical slot on top for proper aiming. 
This provides a +1 shield bonus to AC, a 
–1 armor check penalty, and 5% arcane 
spell failure chance. The gun plate may be 
enchanted as a shield, but is unable to be 
used to make attacks. Whenever you are 
the target of a ranged weapon attack that 
would ignore your armor bonus to AC, you 
add the gun plate’s shield bonus (including 
enhancement bonuses) to your AC against 
that attack.
154
loNgsight
Modification to One or Two Handed 
Firearms 
Cost 2,000 gp; Weight 1 lb.
The longsight is a scope made from finely 
ground glass lenses in a brass tube. When 
affixed to a firearm the longsight provides 
a +2 competence bonus on perception 
checks while looking through it. 
MuFF ler  caN
Modification to Light, One Handed, or 
Two Handed Firearms 
Cost 1,500 gp; Weight 3 lbs.
A solidly built metal tube that screws 
onto the barrel of a firearm. Both the 
muffler can and firearm have to be 
purposely built to be compatible, a can for 
one firearm may not fit a different firearm, 
and firearms that have not been modified 
to accept cans will not allow the can to be 
mounted. The muffler can eliminates all 
the flash but does not eliminate all of the 
sound of a gunshot, it reduces the noise 
of a firearm to the level of hard footsteps 
or loud talking. Someone trying to find 
the location of a firearm using a muffler 
can by sound alone takes a –10 penalty to 
perception checks.
Pistol  laNyard
Modification to One Handed Firearms 
Cost 5 gp; Weight —
Pistol Lanyards are 3-foot-long leather 
straps that attach to your one handed or 
light firearm and tie to your belt. If you 
drop your weapon or are disarmed, you 
can recover it as a move action, and it 
never moves any further away from you 
than an adjacent square. However, you 
cannot have more than two firearms on 
pistol lanyards on your body. The pistol 
lanyard can be removed by untying the 
strap (a full-round action) or cutting it (a 
move action or an attack, hardness 0, 1 hp).
Wea PoN sli Ng
Modification to Two Handed Firearms 
Cost 10 gp; Weight —
Weapon slings are 4-foot-long adjustable 
straps that attach to your firearm and loop 
over your body. If you drop your weapon 
or are disarmed, it falls to your waist and 
you can recover it as a move action, and it 
never moves away from your body and is 
considered attended. However, you cannot 
have more than two firearms on weapon 
slings around your body. The weapon sling 
can by unlooping the strap (a move action) 
or cutting it (a move action or an attack, 
hardness 0, 1 hp).
armor
While the game already has a wide 
variety of armors, the following section 
contains some new ones that fill a different 
niche. Some of these armors are geared 
more toward dexterity based characters 
and those needing defense against 
firearms or road hazards. 
road  gear
Light Armor 
Cost 100 gp; Weight 10 lbs. 
Armor Bonus +1; Max Dex Bonus +6; 
Armor Check Penalty —
Arcane Spell Failure Chance 10%; Speed 
30 ft./20 ft.
Made by speed freaks to protect them 
from falls off vehicles, this armor has panels 
of wood or hard leather backed by heavy, 
quilted cloth and layers of densely packed 
stuffing to create a cheap yet robust 
impact protection. This special type of 
armor provides DR 3/– against impacts and 
attacks that cause bludgeoning damage. 
The special padding of the armor has no 
effect on other kinds of damage. 
 
155
shooters  P late
Light Armor 
Cost 400 gp; Weight 12 lbs. 
Armor Bonus +3; Max Dex Bonus +6; 
Armor Check Penalty –1
Arcane Spell Failure Chance 20%; Speed 
30 ft./20 ft.
Designed for use by military riflemen, 
this armor consists of metal chest and 
back plates with a leather or heavy cloth 
enclosure. Often the rugged canvas carrier 
has many pouches affixed to it for carrying 
various types of gear. The plates are 
constructed in a way to mitigate damage 
from firearms, this armor provides DR 3/– 
against firearms.
riot  gear
Medium Armor 
Cost 500 gp; Weight 12 lbs. 
Armor Bonus +4; Max Dex Bonus +5; 
Armor Check Penalty –1
Arcane Spell Failure Chance 30%; Speed 
20 ft./15 ft.
A full coverage collection of plates that 
are backed by heavy quilted padding. 
This special type of armor provides DR 
3/– against firearms as well as impacts and 
attacks that cause bludgeoning damage. 
The special padding of the armor has no 
effect on other kinds of damage. 
savage  P late
Heavy Armor 
Cost 2,100 gp; Weight 75 lbs. 
Armor Bonus +6; Max Dex Bonus +4; 
Armor Check Penalty –6
Arcane Spell Failure Chance 50%; Speed 
20 ft./15 ft.
This baadan-forged armor is adapted 
from dwarven designs and features layers 
shooters  plate
saVage  plate
156
of overlapping plates molded to deflect 
projectiles—especially those from firearms. 
Whenever you are the target of a ranged 
weapon attack that would ignore your 
armor bonus to AC, you add half the 
savage plate’s armor bonus (including 
enhancement bonuses) to your AC against 
that attack. This benefit does not apply to 
energy attacks or magical touch attacks 
such as rays. Because the armor is designed 
with monstrous races in mind, if you are 
baadan or a “Savage” race, you increase this 
projectile-only bonus by +1. Savage plate 
is fairly bulky, and its armor category can’t 
be reduced by any effect (including by 
special materials, such as mithral). 
Ballistic shield
Cost 535 gp; Weight 12 lbs. 
Armor Bonus +2; Armor Check Penalty –1
Arcane Spell Failure Chance 25%
This heavy steel shield has an added 
window of alchemically tempered glass 
that is as hard as steel. Whenever you are 
the target of a ranged weapon attack that 
would ignore your armor bonus to AC, 
you add the ballistic shield’s shield bonus 
(including enhancement bonuses) to your 
AC against that attack. The ballistic shield 
has notches designed to enable it to be 
wielded in conjunction with a two handed 
firearm, but doing so imparts a –2 penalty 
on attack rolls.  
 
dePloya Ble  shield
Cost 700 gp; Weight 24 lbs. 
Armor Bonus +2; Armor Check Penalty –4
Arcane Spell Failure Chance 25%
This double layered ballistic shield has 
all the benefits of a normal ballistic shield 
but can also be extended and deployed 
to provide cover like a tower shield as a 
standard action. You cannot bash with an 
table : armor
Armor Type Cost
Armor/
Shield 
Bonus
Maximum 
Dex Bonus
Armor 
Check 
Penalty
Arcane 
Spell 
Failure 
Chance
Speed
Weight
30 ft. 20 ft.
Road Gear Light 100 gp +1 +6 0 10% 30 ft. 20 ft. 10 lbs.
Shooters Plate Light 400 gp +3 +6 -1 20% 30 ft. 20 ft. 12 lbs.
Riot Gear Medium 500 gp +4 +5 -1 30% 20 ft. 15 ft. 25 lbs.
Savage Plate Heavy 2,100 gp +6 +4 -6 50% 20 ft. 15 ft. 75 lbs.
Ballistic Shield — 535 gp +2 — -1 25% — — 12 lbs.
Deployable 
Shield — 700 gp +2 — -4 25% — — 24 lbs.
Canid Field 
Armor Light 300 gp +3 +6 -3 10% — — 8 lbs.
depoloyable  shield
157
extended deployable shield, nor can you 
use your shield hand for anything else. 
When employing an extended deployable 
shield in combat, you take a –2 penalty on 
melee attack rolls because of the shield’s 
encumbrance. An extended deployable 
shield may be retracted as a standard 
action.  
caNid  F ield  arMor
Light Armor 
Cost 300 gp; Weight 8 lbs. 
Armor Bonus +3; Max Dex Bonus +6; 
Armor Check Penalty –3
Arcane Spell Failure Chance 10%
Designed from extensive experience with 
working dogs and worgs in the field, canid 
field armor is adapted to the physiology of 
canine creatures. The armor is constructed 
of leather and canvas, with sections of light 
chain mail or metal plates inside the panels 
covering the chest and sides. The design 
leaves the legs free to move naturally, and 
even comes with goggles and open toed 
booties that protect the sensitive pads of 
the paws while leaving their claws free. 
The unique design means that all canines 
(including dogs, wolves, and worgs) are 
considered naturally proficient with canid 
field armor. The armor also allows the easy 
attachment of bags or pouches to the 
harness for gear and tool carrying. Worgs 
will often request specific items to be 
placed in pockets on the rear hips where 
they can access them easily.
armor  modifi Cations
The clever forgemasters of Tombstone 
often hear of complaints and 
recommendations from boys in the field 
and come up with interesting ways to 
upgrade and customize equipment in their 
goblin factories. Some of these are nearly 
mandatory, for example almost every 
soldier has their own helmet. Each of these 
modifications have their own cost and 
sometimes penalties as listed below, they 
can be added to the base price of armor, 
or purchased individually and added to an 
existing armor. 
Canid  field  armor
158
aBlative  P lates
Modification to Heavy Armor 
Cost 1,000 gp; Weight 25 lbs. 
Thick stacks of metal plates wrapped in 
sheets of strong fibrous material are fitted 
into canvas pockets on the outside of the 
armor. These are specially designed to 
stop ranged attacks. They grant DR 2/- and 
block up to 100 points of damage, after 
which they become useless and must be 
replaced. This damage reduction stacks 
with that provided by adamantine armor, 
but not with other forms of damage 
reduction unless they also specifically stack 
with DR provided by adamantine armor 
(for example, DR provided by the armor 
master fighter archetype). A side effect of 
the fabric wrappings is that this upgrade 
grants a +2 bonus on stealth checks.
In addition to increasing the armor’s base 
cost and weight, this upgrade reduces 
the wearer’s speed by 5 feet; the Slow 
and Steady dwarven racial ability enables 
dwarves to ignore the associated speed 
penalties. The listed costs are for including 
this modification to nonmagical armor; 
increase the cost by 50% if adding to a suit 
of magical armor.
 
auto Mated  arMor
Modification to Heavy Armor
Cost: 40,000 gp
This modification allows a suit of heavy 
armor to be built into a construct that can 
don and remove itself from its wearer upon 
command. So long as the owner wears it, 
the construct performs no independent 
actions, remaining under the control of 
the creator and functions as normal heavy 
armor, with an added bonus of having 
any movement penalties reduced by 10 
feet. The owner can order the removal of 
the armor with a swift action, at which 
point the automated armor leaves the 
owner’s space and enters a space adjacent 
to the owner. When the automated 
armor is not being worn it is considered a 
medium animated object made of metal 
and uses the statistics below. Donning 
automated armor takes a full-round action 
if the construct is still active. The owner 
cannot don automated armor with this 
modification if the construct has been 
destroyed. Automated armor counts as 
the original heavy armor for purposes 
of determining AC, weight, Dexterity 
modifiers to AC, and chance of arcane spell 
failure. Automated armor can be further 
modified like any construct. 
auto Mated  arMor
XP 800 
N Medium construct 
Init +0; Senses darkvision 60 ft., low-light 
vision; Perception –5
de FeNse
AC 16, touch 10, flat-footed 16 (+6 natural) 
hp 36 (3d10+20) 
Fort +1, Ref +1, Will -4 
Defensive Abilities hardness 10; Immune 
construct traits
oFF eNse
Speed 30 ft. 
Melee slam +5 (1d6+3)
statistics
Str 14, Dex 10, Con —, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1 
Base Atk +3; CMB +5; CMD 15
Mithral automated armor gains hardness 
15 plus a +2 increase to natural armor. 
Adamantine automated armor gains 
hardness 20, and receives a +4 increase 
to natural armor. Automated armor 
made from wood has a hardness of 5 and 
receives a -2 penalty to natural armor, 
other materials may vary depending on 
hardness. 
Construction Requirements: Craft 
Construct, Craft Magic Arms and Armor, 
animate objects
 
159
Filter  M ask
Modification to Light, Medium, and 
Heavy Armor 
Cost 20 gp; Weight 2 lbs. 
A filter mask is a tight fitting leather mask 
with built-in goggles and two breathing 
ports containing charcoal filled alchemical 
filters. A filter mask is fitted to an existing 
helm and imposes a –2 penalty on hearing 
and sight-based Perception checks, 
although the lenses can be replaced with 
most magical items that use the eyes slot. 
The mask grants immunity to inhaled 
poisons and other non-magical airborne 
attacks that require you to breathe them, 
and a +2 bonus on saving throws against 
magical cloud or magical gas attacks. 
Filters last for 8 hours, take 5 minutes to 
replace, and cost 10 gp each. Crafting 
additional filters costs 5 gp and a DC 15 
Craft (alchemy) check. 
iro N jaW
Modification to Medium and Heavy 
Armor 
Cost 1,000 gp; Weight 5 lbs. 
This is a heavy, reinforced helmet with 
a large articulated chin protector fitted 
with metal teeth that can be used to make 
melee attacks. The wearer gains a bite 
attack as a primary natural attack that 
deals 1d6 points of damage (1d4 if the 
wearer is Small). If the wearer already has a 
bite attack, the damage of that bite attack 
increases by one step.
In addition, an iron jaw helmet grants a 
+2 circumstance bonus to the wearer’s AC 
against critical hit confirmation rolls. An 
iron jaw can be enchanted as a weapon 
(not as armor, despite providing some 
protection). Armor that has an iron jaw 
helmet requires one additional minute 
to don or remove. The listed cost is for 
including this modification to nonmagical 
armor; increase the cost by 50% if adding 
to a suit of magical armor.
filter  mask
iron  JaW
160
iou N socket
Modification to Light, Medium, and 
Heavy Armor 
Cost 250 gp; Weight —
Small metal enclosures that can be built 
in or attached to the insides of helmets or 
armor plates, each socket will hold a single 
ioun stone. An ioun stone slotted in this 
manner grants you its normal benefits (as if 
it were orbiting your head). 
slogger  B oots
Modification to Medium and Heavy 
Armor 
Cost 550 gp; Weight 8 lbs. 
Heavy boots armored and plated in 
metal, they grant the wearer immunity 
to caltrops, and fire and cold resistance 5 
against energy damage from walking on 
surfaces. The listed costs are for including 
this modification to nonmagical armor; 
increase the cost by 50% if adding to a suit 
of magical armor.
steel  P ot  hel Met
Modification to Light, Medium, and 
Heavy Armor 
Cost 200 gp; Weight 4 lbs. 
This simple, round metal helmet has 
internal padding and is fastened with a 
leather chin strap. The helmet grants a +1 
circumstance bonus to the wearer’s AC 
against critical hit confirmation rolls. 
gear
Any experienced merc knows you 
need the right equipment to get the job 
done. These new gear options allow your 
characters to prepare for interesting and 
tactical scenarios.
alcheMical Fuel
Price 10 gp/gallon; Weight 8 lbs. 
This mildly volatile liquid burns 
slowly at a controlled rate and 
is useful as a degreaser, solvent, 
and most importantly a fuel for 
alchemical engines. Alchemical fuel 
can be refined from crude oil, distilled 
from plants, or even brewed by 
specific types of algae. This process is 
somewhat complicated and requires 
a dedicated lab that costs 500 gp and 
is capable of producing 10 gallons a 
day, complex factories combine and 
expand the components of these labs 
to produce even greater volumes.
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 20
egg tiMer
Price 25 gp; Weight 1 lb. 
This small timer can be set in 1 
minute increments from 1 to 480. It 
can be set to ring a small bell or to 
activate another device that has been 
designed to interact with a timer.   
Crafting Craft (clockwork) DC 15
steel  pot  helmet
161
Fuse , B lack  P oWder
Price 10 gp/foot; Weight 1 lb.
   Black powder fuse is a long cord that 
is sold by the foot. Made from a special 
thin braided twine and packed with 
grains of black powder, the fuse burns at 
a controlled rate of one foot per round. 
Setting the fuse into an explosive properly 
is a full round action that requires a DC 15 
Disable Device check.
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 15
Fuse , P ressure
Price 100 gp; Weight 1 lb.
   This is a small metal cylinder containing 
primer powder and a spring loaded 
plunger. The fuse is armed by pulling 
back the plunger and fired by pulling the 
plunger release with a string, or attaching 
it to a timer. Setting the fuse and arming 
is a full round action that requires a DC 15 
Disable Device check.
Crafting  Craft (alchemy) DC 20
Fuse , sPri Nkler
Price 150 gp; Weight 5 lbs.
   A Sprinkler Fuse looks like a regular storm 
lantern. Upon close inspection you can 
find that there is a dial numbered from 
5 to 60 under the top cap, and a crank 
under the base. To use the Sprinkler Fuse, 
simply light the lantern, set the dial to the 
desired number of minutes, then wind 
the internal spring with the crank. Once 
the desired amount of time has elapsed, 
the internal fuel oil will be pumped out 
the top, spraying a 5 ft area, and then an 
internal reservoir will be exposed to the 
flame causing the Sprinkler Fuse to burst 
catching everything nearby on fire.  
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 20
gas  M ask
Price 25 gp; Weight 10 lbs.
   Gas masks are airtight leather masks 
fitted with thick glass eyepieces and 
two breathing ports containing charcoal 
filled alchemical filters. A gas mask is 
worn tightly around the head and face, 
allowing the user to breathe in hazardous 
environments. A gas mask grants immunity 
to inhaled poisons and other non-magical 
airborne attacks that require you to 
breathe them, and a +2 bonus on saving 
throws against magical cloud or magical 
gas attacks. Using a gas mask imposes a 
–2 penalty on hearing- and sight-based 
Perception checks. Filters last for 8 hours, 
take 5 minutes to replace, and cost 10 gp 
each. Crafting additional filters costs 5 gp 
and a DC 15 Craft(alchemy) check.   
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 20 
iron  JaW and  gas  mask
162
gre Nade  saBot
Price 10 gp; Weight 1 lb. 
   This squat metal tube has a thick base 
containing a light alchemical propellent 
charge. The tube is designed to accept 
any standard issue grenade, but once 
inserted it is not able to be removed 
safely. Grenades must be combined with 
a grenade sabot to be used in one of 
the various types of grenade launcher 
weapons. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 20
juMP  P ack
Price 10,800 gp; Weight 105 lbs. 
   As a standard action these solid fuel 
rockets strapped to your back propel 
you through the air up to 760 ft. If you 
arrive in a place that is already occupied 
by a solid body, you instead land on the 
nearest unoccupied space. Your flight 
must be uninterrupted, if your flight 
path is obstructed in any way, you strike 
the obstruction and fall from that point. 
A jump pack may be used one time 
before it requires refueling. Refueling 
a jump pack requires 300 gp of unique 
alchemical reagents, this process takes an 
uninterrupted 10 minutes.
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30
MoBile  cover
Price 95 gp; Weight 135 lbs.
   Layered panels of metal connected with 
spring loaded tracks and levers make up 
this heavy device that looks like a stack 
of tower shields. While it is far too heavy 
and bulky to be wielded as a shield, it can 
be deployed to provide cover much like a 
tower shield, panels sliding apart to reveal 
two firing ports and aiming windows. As 
a standard action, you can extend and 
deploy a mobile cover to grant you and 
another creature total cover until the 
mobile cover is retrieved. When deploying 
the mobile cover you must choose one 
edge of your space and a matching 
edge of an adjacent square. The mobile 
cover extends and becomes a solid 10ft 
wall firmly attached to the ground. Any 
creatures adjacent to the mobile cover gain 
total cover for attacks that pass through 
it from the other side. Retrieving a mobile 
cover is a full round action. A mobile cover 
has a hardness of 10, 60 hit points, and 
weighs 135 lbs.
Crafting Craft (armor) DC 20
Parachute
Price 100 gp; Weight 10 lbs.
   This fabric safety device fits into a 
wearable pack and when opened from a 
height of greater than 100 feet, expands 
to a 35 foot radius. The parabolic shape 
of the parachute functions as a means to 
create as much drag as possible and slow 
the wearer’s descent. The chute itself is 
usually made of spider silk to be as strong 
and lightweight as possible. The straps 
attached to the canopy lead down into 
the pack, which is directly integrated into 
a wearable load bearing harness. Often 
employed by airborne infantrymen, the 
design is kept simple and easy to use. 
Upon landing, the wearer takes no falling 
grenade  sabot
163
damage and can release the pack as a free 
action. Folding the parachute and packing 
it into its enclosure for reuse requires a 
DC 20 craft cloth check, failing this check 
means the parachute will not fully open 
when it is used and the wearer will take 
falling damage as normal.  This device 
was likely designed by a psychopath or 
someone with an innate fear of perfectly 
functional airships. 
Crafting Craft (cloth) DC 25
ParatrooPer Boots
Price 800 gp; Weight 8 lbs.
These masterwork boots are the pinnacle 
of military footwear. Made from durable 
exotic leathers and thick soles, then treated 
with oils to provide waterproofing and 
laced with braided spider silk, the knee-
high boots are an advantage for any 
soldier. These boots provide a non magical 
+2 bonus to Constitution checks required 
during a forced march, and a +2 bonus to 
Acrobatics checks to avoid falling damage. 
Crafting Craft (shoes) DC 20
PoWder MagaziNe
Price 250 gp; Weight 30 lbs.
   This large chest is made of double walled 
sheets of steel that have been filled with 
an insulating material and has a matching 
tight fitting lid with many latches. When 
the lid is secured and latched, the chest 
is waterproof. Any explosives placed in 
the powder magazine are protected from 
accidental detonation by fire, electricity, or 
explosions. An empty powder magazine 
weighs 30 lbs and has four cubic feet 
of internal volume, enough to store 4 
gunpowder kegs. It may be possible to 
have powder magazines made in different 
sizes and shapes. 
Crafting Craft (armor) DC 15
road sPikes
Price 3,000 gp; Weight 50 lbs. 
   A roll of stout fabric with sewn in wooden 
bracing, this item can be quickly unrolled 
as a move action to expose the many rows 
of metal spikes protruding from one side. 
This creates a 20-foot line that if crossed by 
a vehicle with wheels will cause the vehicle 
to make a sudden stop by puncturing the 
wheels and wrapping around the axles 
(Reflex DC 20 negates). If road spikes are 
deployed with a DC 20 disguise check, 
increase the Reflex save by +10.
Crafting Craft (traps) DC 20
sMokeleaF
Price 5 sp/pound 
   These dried and cured leaves are often 
chewed or burned and the smoke inhaled, 
they contain a natural stimulant that helps 
people stay alert, but this comes at the cost 
of potentially serious health problems with 
prolonged use. When using smokeleaf you 
gain a +1 alchemical bonus to perception 
checks and saving throws against sleep-
related spells or effects.
sPeedloader MagaziNe
Price 50 gp; Weight 1 lb. 
   This device allows for the rapid reloading 
smokeleaf  notes
Smokeleaf can be consumed in 
many ways and the price will vary 
greatly depending on brand, quality, 
and the way it has been prepared. 
Some methods last longer than oth-
ers, and unless you’re using some form 
of complex apparatus like a hookah, 
it can be consumed as a free action 
that a character can do passively while 
performing other duties.
164
of a single type of magazine fed firearm 
or revolver. If it has been loaded with 
manufactured ammunition ahead of time 
(such loading requires a full round action) 
the specific firearm that it fits may be 
loaded with the Speedloader Magazine 
as a free action, this action empties the 
Speedloader Magazine until it has been 
reloaded again. Speedloader Magazines 
can be used on different identical types of 
firearms, but each type of firearm requires 
its own specific Speedloader Magazine that 
has been crafted to fit.
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 20
trauMa dressiNg
Price Small 50 gp, Medium 300 gp, Large 
750 gp; Weight 1, 2, 5 lbs. 
    This field-expedient combination of 
styptics, medicated salve, gauze, and 
tight wound wrappings can be applied to 
negate the effects of most flesh wounds 
and control bleeding. Applying any 
Trauma Dressing takes a standard action 
and a successful DC15 Heal check. Trauma 
Dressings come in three sizes, treat this as 
non-magical healing equal to the following 
spells: 
        Small = Cure light wounds
        Medium = Cure moderate wounds
        Large = Cure serious wounds
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 20 (small), 
25 (medium), 30 (large)
uNiversal aNtidote
Price 1,500 gp; Weight 1 lb. 
   The universal antidote is a rare and 
difficult to create alchemical concoction. 
Drinking a universal antidote will instantly 
neutralize most diseases and poisons, but 
the noxious mixture will likely leave the 
patient nauseated afterward. Treat this 
as non-magical cure poison and remove 
disease, with a caster level check of 30. A 
creature who drinks the universal antidote 
must make a DC 20 save (Fort negates) or 
become nauseated for 1d6 rounds.
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 30
Water Breather
Price 475 gp; Weight 25 lbs.
   This consists of a mouth covering mask 
with two thick hoses connected to a box 
that can be mounted on the back or chest. 
The water breather uses a replaceable 
cartridge filled with alchemically treated 
moss and algae to recycle the wearer’s 
breath, providing air for extended 
underwater excursions. The cartridge must 
be replaced after 5 hours of use, but this 
use need not be continuous. Replacement 
cartridges cost 375 gp. 
Crafting Craft (alchemy) DC 20
uni Versal 
antidote
You see the medic reach into his bag 
and remove what looks like a thick glass 
pint jar stoppered with a large cork 
and sealed with wax. Inside the jar is a 
dark blob that occasionally twitches in 
some translucent fluid, surrounded by 
flecks of floating detritus. He cuts away 
the wax and uncorks the bottle, releas-
ing a strong cloying odor that reeks of 
musk and bitter spices. “Here, ” he hands 
you the jar “drink this, the whole thing, 
and DO NOT chew it. That embryonic 
basilisk liver is carefully preserved, and 
well, technically alive. If it’s totally dead 
it can’t suck the poison out. ” As you chug 
what appears to be some sort of fish oil 
combined with rock salt and bitter plant 
leaves, you struggle to force down the 
squirming mass that’s at least twice as 
big as your tongue. It seems to fight you 
and wants to crawl back up out of your 
stomach, and it takes everything you’ve 
got not to let it.
165
Water  F iNs
Price 100 gp; Weight 5 lbs.
Water fins give the wearer a swim speed 
equal to half their base land speed. A 
creature with an existing swim speed adds 
+10 feet to their swimming speed. All 
creatures have a 5 foot speed on land while 
wearing water fins. Donning or doffing 
water fins requires a full round action. 
Crafting Craft (leather) DC 20
equipment  kits
air Bor Ne kit
Price 900 gp; Weight 18 lbs
   The basic loadout to turn a ground 
pounder into an airborne trooper, this 
kit includes a parachute and paratrooper 
boots. 
che Mical  kit
Price 2,925 gp; Weight 23 lbs. 
   To be issued and used in the event of 
unconventional warfare tactics, this kit 
contains a gas mask, four gas grenades, 
and one universal antidote.
gre Nade  kit
Price 7,000 gp; Weight 80 lbs. 
   This kit contains a bandolier, grenade 
sabot (20), and 4 each of the following 
alchemical grenades: fragmentation 
grenade, flashbang grenade, smoke 
grenade (different colors), incendiary 
grenade, gas grenade.
Mortar MaN kit
Price 58,200 gp; Weight 283 lbs. 
   A mortarman kit consists of one mortar 
tube weapon and 12 mortar shells, six are 
AP shells and the other six are incendiary 
shells. This kit is normally assigned to a 
team of two soldiers. 
shark  troo Per  kit
Price 2,550 gp; Weight 100 lbs. 
   Specially designed for amphibious 
operations, the shark trooper kit allows 
a soldier to move silently and unseen 
through the water to strike from 
unexpected regions. This kit contains 
one water breather apparatus, two water 
breather cartridges, one set of water fins, 
and one streamlined shark disguise that 
causes the wearer to appear to be a shark 
in the water. This disguise is so complete 
that at a distance it appears to be an actual 
shark to any observers. Only upon looking 
up close is there any indication it might not 
be what it seems, in such circumstances it 
grants a +10 bonus on a Disguise check to 
appear to be a shark. 
trau Ma kit
Price Small 2,000 gp, Large 4,500 gp; 
Weight 16, 40 lbs. 
   The small kit contains the following items: 
small trauma dressing (5), medium trauma 
dressing (3), large trauma dressing (1), troll 
styptic, all in a small pouch. 
The large kit contains the following: small 
trauma dressing (10), medium trauma 
dressing (5), large trauma dressing (3), troll 
styptic (3), in a shoulder bag.
ammunition
All of the firearms in this book use 
manufactured cartridges. Manufactured 
cartridges use a reloadable brass case, 
a primer, a powder load, and a bullet 
projectile. All of these components are 
required to craft manufactured cartridge 
ammunition. Manufactured cartridges 
are similar to alchemical cartridges in 
function, but they do not increase the 
chance of a misfire. Each firearm takes a 
specific type of manufactured cartridge 
ammunition, and each type can further be 
customized as special ammunition, made 
masterwork, or enchanted in groups of 
166
50, similar to arrows. Ammo prices are for 
standard rules, remember to divide by ten 
if using the suggested “guns everywhere” 
rules. 
haNdguN aMMuNitioN
Price 10 gp per round, 500 gp/50 rounds 
   This smaller caliber ammunition fits most 
handguns such as the semi-automatic 
handgun, cattlemen’s revolver, zipguns, and 
submachine gun. 
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 20
riFle aMMuNitioN
Price 15 gp per round, 750 gp/50 rounds 
   Using a long tapered case and larger 
powder load, rifle ammunition travels 
at much higher velocities and deals 
more damage on average than pistol 
ammunition. This ammunition fits firearms 
such as the infantry rifle, modern light 
machine gun, minigat, and big iron revolver. 
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 20
shell aMMuNitioN
Price 15 gp per shell, 750 gp/50 shells
Shotgun shells are available as pellets or 
slugs, and are used in such firearms as the 
trench sweeper and coach gun. 
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 20
large caliBer aMMuNitioN
Price 30 gp per round, 1,500 gp/50 rounds
Also called .50 caliber ammunition, this 
large rifle round carries a hefty bullet 
with a very large powder load pushing 
it to incredible speeds. Large caliber 
manufactured cartridges are used in 
firearms like the anti-materiel rifle, the big 
gat, and the heavy machine gun. 
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 25 
autocaNNoN aMMuNitioN
Price 60 gp per round, 3,000 gp/50 rounds
More of a small artillery round shaped like 
a big rifle round, autocannons use their own 
manufactured cartridge ammunition with a 
bullet that is nearly an inch in diameter.  
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 30
ammunition Components
Manufactured ammunition all requires 
similar components to craft. These 
components, along with a dose of 
gunpowder, allow the crafter to create 
manufactured ammunition. 
cartridge PriMers
Price 1 gp for pistol, 1 gp for rifle, 1 gp 
for shells, 2 gp for large caliber, 3 gp for 
autocannon
Small disks filled with a volatile alchemical 
compound, primers cause the powder 
inside a cartridge to burn when struck by 
the firing pin of a firearm.  
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 30 
lead Bullet Projectile
Price 3 gp for pistol, 5 gp for rifle, 5 gp for 
shells, 10 gp for large caliber, 20 gp for 
autocannon
Bullets made from cast lead are easy to 
produce with cast iron molds and a hot fire.  
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 10 
uNFired Brass casiNgs
Price 3 gp for pistol, 5 gp for rifle, 5 gp for 
shells, 10 gp for large caliber, 20 gp for 
autocannon
Brass casings are a basic component 
for crafting or reloading manufactured 
ammunition.  
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 20 
aMMuNitioN liNks
Price 1 sp/10 pcs
These small bits of stamped and folded 
sheet metal are used to link bullets into 
belts.  
Crafting Craft (gunsmithing) DC 15
167
speCial ammunition
The following are a few of the ways 
that manufactured ammunition can be 
modified. Some require special materials, 
but all of them apply some form of 
additional effect when fired. 
adaMaNtiNe Bullets
Price +60 gp per round, +3,000 gp/50 
rounds 
   Manufactured cartridges with adamantine 
projectiles are always masterwork quality, 
the projectiles are extremely hard and 
valued for their ability to cut through 
solid barriers with ease. Bullets made from 
adamantine have a natural ability to bypass 
hardness when sundering weapons or 
attacking objects, ignoring hardness less 
than 20. 
BleediNg Bullets
Price +300 gp per round 
   A bleeding bullet deals normal damage 
when it hits a creature. Each round 
thereafter, the creature bleeds for 1 point of 
damage until the bleeding is stopped by a 
DC 10 Heal check or the application of a cure 
spell or some other healing magic. A critical 
hit does not multiply the bleed damage. 
Creatures immune to critical hits (such as 
plants and constructs) are immune to the 
bleed damage dealt by this weapon. 
distaNce rouNds
Price +2 gp/50 rounds 
   These boat tailed solid copper rounds 
increase a firearms range increment by 10 
feet but take a –1 penalty on damage dealt 
per range increment (minimum 1 point of 
damage).  
Flechette  rou Nds
Price +25 gp per round, +1,250 gp/50 
rounds 
   When fired, the projectile fragments into 
hundreds of tiny needles, forming a 5-foot 
burst of razor-sharp splinters that deals 
1d4 points of piercing damage (Reflex DC 
18 negates). 
iNce Ndiary  rou Nds
Price +100 gp per round 
   Upon impact alchemical agents stored 
in the projectile spread in a burst of flame 
dealing 1d6 points of fire damage to the 
target. The weight of this projectile imparts 
a –1 penalty on attack rolls. 
ruFuss  red  aMM uNitio N
Price 2,500 gp for a box of 5 rounds 
   This exotic .50 caliber/large caliber 
ammunition is rare, and only comes in five 
round boxes. Designed as a specialty anti-
vehicle and anti-materiel round, it is easily 
identifiable by its green and white striped 
tip. The projectile detonates and explodes 
on impact and deals an additional 2d6 
points of bludgeoning and piercing 
damage and 1d6 fire, any creature that 
survives being hit by a rufuss red round 
must also succeed at a DC 20 Reflex save or 
catch fire, taking an additional 1d6 points 
of fire damage each round until the flames 
are extinguished. 
sPell  disru Pti Ng aMM uNitio N
Price +15 gp per round, +750 gp/50 rounds
These masterwork alchemical cartridges, 
arrows, or crossbow bolts are made with a 
penetrator crafted from a green crystalline 
star metal. Any creature wounded by spell 
disrupting ammunition suffers a 20% 
arcane spell failure chance. Dislodging the 
projectile from the wound removes the 
spell failure chance but it requires a DC 20 
Heal check, this is a full round action that 
does provoke. This ammunition may be 
enchanted, but it costs twice as much as 
normal ammunition to enchant. 
168
tracer  rou Nds
Price +25 gp/50 rounds 
   These rounds contain a small alchemical 
charge in the base of the projectile that 
burns when fired leaving a searing streak 
along the path of the bullet. When fired 
from a weapon with the automatic quality 
this reduces the penalty to hit when firing 
by –1. Not all of the ammunition needs to 
be composed of tracer rounds, but at least 
1 out of every 5 shots must be a tracer to 
gain this effect.
prin Cess , the  military  Working 
Worg  Wearing  Canid  field  armor
169
prin Cess , the  military  Working 
Worg  Wearing  Canid  field  armor
a steed  most  
Worthy
Within the confines of a densely cluttered workshop, Speedy wrenched away at a 
piece of machinery. The air around him was filled with smoke and airborne debris 
from the other workers grinding metal, blow torching parts, hammering out dents in 
the metal skin of impressive machines, and more. Somewhere just beyond eyeshot, 
a heavily barricaded door with precisely carved letters on it said “Dwarven Sapper 
Division, Research and Development” adjacent to this door was a rough wooden sign 
with the crude painted words “Do not intur. High risk uh deff. ”
Warboi entered the dusty, noisy shop in search of Speedy, spotting his target just 
beyond the first row of maintenance bays. Speedy could be seen shoulder-deep in the 
guts of a warmachine decorated with the scars of battle, handcrafted paint markings, 
and a lot of firepower. The click of Warboi’s boots was drowned out among the various 
power tools and machinery churning away in a symphony of mechanical prowess.
“Oi, iz me steed ready?” , Warboi bellowed, giving Speedy a kick on the boots. Speedy 
ceased his work, sliding out from under his current project with a huge grin stretched 
across his soot-covered face.
“Warboi! Dis monster will ‘ave ya smashin’ heads and haulin’ ass like never before! 
Prepare to be amazed, ” Speedy replied. He hopped up onto his feet, dusting himself off 
and motioned to Warboi to follow him. 
“Dis gitz was a right pain in me arse to finish, but she’s a right beaut’ now. Wait ‘til 
ya see what Iz done to her. Parked her next to me own Bur-rah-dum, since she’s so 
sexy, ” Speedy barked, trying to explain to Warboi as they both traversed the shop floor 
towards the back door. A loud explosion rocked the building, blowing the entrance 
to the R&D center clean off the hinges. A few dwarves limped out of the room, 
completely covered in soot, coughing and waving their hands around to clear thick 
plumes of smoke from the air around them. 
“Haha! Dem boiz are werkin’ on a new round a gatz fer da convoy!” , Speedy pointed 
out, noticing Warboi’s attention drawn to the area.
Speedy pushed a heavy door open, allowing a bit of fresh air to rush into the shop as 
the duo exited into the open air. Speedy’s wide toothy grin could not be contained. His 
pride was most apparent over the huge armored truck that sat next to a motorcycle 
that displayed a pair of huge wheels, a massive engine, exceptional armor plating, and 
enough firepower wage war for a week straight.
170
Warboi laid eyes upon the trukk with a satisfied glow in his eyes, beneath his 
goggles. The sight of this new and improved trukk nearly brought him to drool.
“Behold! Da engine haz been worked over, squeezin’ 30% more horsepower n’ torque 
to all four wheels. Da tirez have been upgraded with the next generation which now 
includes armor plates on da sidewallz. Adamantite bulletproofin’ haz been added 
inside da body panelz for added protection, which also allowed me ta reinforce the 
gun mounts and make em more rigid for less accuracy loss. Iz went ahead and upsized 
ya ammo stores as well, givin’ ya 20% more storage capacity. And, me personal touch, 
Iz went ahead an’ added a grenade machine gat and mounted it so that you haz some 
nice firepower right at ya finger tips, ” Speedy explained with great fervor.
“So, what do ya think? Still doubtin’ ol’ Speedy?” , He continued, jesting a bit at 
Warboi.
Warboi stood in awe and placed this thumbs into the front of his belt. His eyes 
darted all over the vehicle, stricken with something that stood out as beautiful among 
the cluster of workshop buildings bellowing their smokestacks high into the sky.
“Itz a right work of art, Speedy. Youz outdone ya selvez. ” Warboi muttered, barely 
audible over the cacophony of noise still emanating from the workshop door. Speedy 
clapped his hands together in excitement.
“So, wanna take her for a spin?” , Speedy asks with a gleam in his eye. Warboi snorts, 
shaking his head.
“Nah, dis one ain’t for me. Need it for a special mission. One of me boiz is needin’ 
somethin’ that can keep up with me own buggy. ”
171
Vehi Cle  rules
in most  games , lo W-le Vel  Chara Cters  do  the  ma Jority  
of  their  tra Veling  on  their  oWn tWo feet . in sa Vage  
Company  Chara Cters  Will  Come  aCross  aCC ess  to  Vehi Cles  
at  many  le Vels , be  that  getting  rides , or  eVen  buying  
or  Commandeering  their  oWn. the  Vehi Cles  in  this  
book  Come  in  tWo forms : land  Vehi Cles  that  ser Ve as 
transportation  and  Combat  platforms , and  airships  that  
pro Vide  transportation  and  are  more  like  mobile  bases . 
using  Vehi Cles  is  optional , you  may  Just  Want  to  feature  
them  as  a gm Controlled  Way  to  get  your  players  to  a 
mission , or  you  may  base  your  entire  Campaign  around  
a group  of  Chopper  riding  desert  Warriors . W hate Ver 
you  Choose , the  rules  in  this  Chapter  are  our  take  on 
streamlined  Vehi Cular  Combat , designed  to  be  simple  and  
easy , allo Wing  you  to  fo Cus  on  the  game .

172
basi Cs
The following are the basic rules for using 
vehicles. This is an overview of the rules 
that all vehicles use.
Drivers Drivers control vehicles. A driver 
is a creature with an Intelligence score of at 
least 3 who is physically able to manipulate 
a vehicle’s driving device and who is both 
within the driving spaces of a vehicle and 
actively manipulating the driving device. 
Occupants Any creature riding, 
driving, or serving as crew on a vehicle is 
considered its occupant. 
Facing Unlike characters, vehicles have a 
forward facing. A vehicle moves best when 
it moves in the direction of its forward 
facing. 
Acceleration/Deceleration Vehicles 
must accelerate to reach their maximum 
speed. Each round, with the proper driving 
action and a successful check, the driver 
can increase the vehicle’s movement by its 
rate of acceleration, as long that value is no 
greater than the vehicle’s maximum speed. 
Vehicles must decelerate to slow down and 
are hard to stop at an exact point. 
Initiative A vehicle moves at the start of 
its driver’s turn. If a vehicle has no driver, it 
moves on the turn of the last creature that 
was its driver, or on a turn determined by 
the GM. 
Controlling a Vehicle If a vehicle has 
a driver, before the driver does anything 
else on her turn, she must determine what 
drive action she is taking, and take that 
action. If the driver takes no action, takes 
some other action instead of driving the 
vehicle, or delays or readies an action—or 
if there is no driver—the vehicle takes the 
“uncontrolled” action. A driver can only take 
one action each turn to control a vehicle. 
Once the driver has selected the action, or 
takes some other action forcing the vehicle 
to become uncontrolled, the vehicle moves. 
Driving Check When a driver takes a 
driving action, she must make a driving 
check to determine the maneuverability 
and speed of the vehicle that round. The 
vehicle’s propulsion determines what skill 
is used for the driving check. A driver can 
always make a Wisdom check in place of a 
driving check. The base DCs for all driving 
checks are DC 5 and DC 20. Use the lower 
DC when the driver is not in combat and 
the higher DC when the driver is in combat. 
In Combat Vehicles and crew members 
do not threaten any area around them, but 
their drivers and their non-crew occupants 
do. Vehicles can enter the spaces of objects 
and creatures smaller than themselves. 
Vehicles do not usually have attacks, but 
they can—and may be required to—make 
vehicular bull rush, vehicular overrun, 
and ramming combat maneuvers. Some 
vehicles may have weapons that can be 
activated by the driver, melee vehicular 
weapons always have a Strength modifier 
of +10 and ranged vehicular weapons use 
the drivers Dexterity modifier. 
propulsion
Every vehicle has a method of propulsion. 
The method of propulsion typically affects 
the speed and maneuverability of a 
vehicle, but more importantly, a vehicle’s 
propulsion determines the required skill 
needed to control a vehicle. The methods of 
propulsion encountered in this book take 
two forms: Alchemical and Magical.  
Alchemical Alchemical engines are 
the most common forms of propulsion 
for many vehicles. Crafted from metal to 
173
contain small explosions of flammable 
alchemical fuel, an alchemical engine is 
difficult and complex to build or repair, 
but easy to operate, they can be disabled 
using Disable Device and are considered 
difficult devices. Alchemical engines require 
no special checks to control, however 
their constant noise makes them easy to 
hear and imparts a –10 penalty on stealth 
checks. Alchemical engines have a hardness 
of 10, and 20 hit points per square. 
Magically treated or enchanted alchemical 
devices have double the hardness and hit 
points. Alchemical fuel consumption is an 
important part of operating these engines. 
Alchemical engines use 1 gp worth of 
alchemical fuel per hour for each square of 
the vehicle, and on average have enough 
fuel storage to hold 5 gallons of fuel per 
square of the vehicle.   
Magic Magic provides some of the 
most powerful and easy-to-use methods 
of propelling a vehicle, such as an 
experienced driver cavalier’s vehicular 
mount or an airship with an arcane device 
at its heart. Often simply identifying the 
properties of the magic item providing 
propulsion gives a creature the ability to 
use it, but sometimes more complicated 
magical devices require Spellcraft or Use 
Magic Device to drive properly. Magic 
items used for propulsion have their own 
item statistics.
dri Ving  deViCes
Driving devices listed are usually 
handlebars, steering wheel, throttle, or 
pedals. These are made of metal and have 
an Armor Class of 12, 20 hit points, and a 
hardness of 10. When a driving device is 
destroyed, a vehicle cannot be driven until 
the driving device is repaired.
Vehi Cle  size  and  spa Ce
Vehicles have sizes and spaces different 
from creature sizes and spaces. Many 
vehicles are long and thin rather than 
taking up a space of an equal number 
of squares per side like creatures do. A 
wagon, for instance, may take up a 10-by-
10-foot square, or may be 10 feet wide 
and 15 feet or more long. Often one of 
the shorter sides of the vehicle serves as a 
vehicle’s forward facing.
Size Conversion Often it is important 
to know the size category of a vehicle. Use 
Table: Vehicle Size to determine the size 
category of a vehicle based on the number 
of squares it occupies.
table : V ehi Cle  size  
Vehicle Squares Vehicle Size
2–6 squares Large vehicle
7–12 squares Huge vehicle
13–20 squares Gargantuan vehicle 
21+ squares Colossal vehicle
Driving Space At least one 5-foot-
by-5-foot square on each vehicle must 
be designated as its driving space—
sometimes such an area may encompass 
multiple squares. In order to drive a vehicle, 
an intelligent creature must be within 
at least one square of the driving space 
and able to manipulate its driving device. 
The typical sizes and locations of driving 
spaces are detailed in the individual vehicle 
descriptions. 
 
   Carrying Capacity Most vehicles will 
have a limited number of passengers they 
can carry based on the squares available 
to fit them inside, this may be raised in 
a pinch by squeezing multiple creatures 
into individual squares. Some vehicles are 
designed to carry cargo or have a fixed limit 
174
on space and weight. If the cargo weight 
limit is not stated assume that a vehicle can 
carry up to 250 pounds per square of the 
vehicle, including drivers and passengers. 
Vehi Cle  faCing  and  
moVement
Vehicles do not move like creatures. 
They tend to move in the direction of their 
forward facing, and do so quickly.
Facing Unlike creatures, most vehicles 
have a forward facing. The facing of 
the vehicle determines its best path of 
propulsion. Vehicles can often turn quickly, 
but only as part of movement. Vehicle 
facing represents the effect of inertia on 
vehicles. When driven correctly, vehicles 
can move straight ahead, diagonally, or a 
mix of both within the same movement. 
Skilled drivers can make a vehicle zigzag in 
a forward direction with ease.
Movement Vehicles have a maximum 
speed and an acceleration listing. The 
speed is the fastest rate the vehicle 
can travel. A vehicle cannot start at its 
maximum speed, unless it has some form 
of high-level magic propulsion. Each 
round, the driver can attempt to accelerate 
the vehicle or decelerate it by a rate equal 
to its acceleration. The rate at which a 
vehicle is currently moving is called its 
current speed.
dri Ving  Vehi Cles
Controlling a vehicle takes common 
sense, awareness, intuition, and often 
some amount of skill in its method of 
propulsion. With alchemical propulsion, 
it’s about knowing when to pump the 
brakes and when to slam on the gas, 
guiding your steel monster around rocks 
and potholes while keeping your tires 
on the ground. With magic, it is typically 
about understanding the magic device 
that powers the propulsion and using 
the device properly.
Driving Actions: A driver can, at the 
start of her turn, before taking any other 
action, take any of the following actions 
(except the “uncontrolled” action) to 
control a vehicle. If the driver does not 
take an action, takes another action, or 
delays or readies an action, she loses 
control of the vehicle and the vehicle 
takes the “uncontrolled” action.
Accelerate (standard action): 
With a successful driving check, the 
vehicle’s current speed increases up to 
its acceleration (in 5-foot increments; 
minimum 5 feet), but no higher than 
its maximum speed. The vehicle can 
move forward or forward diagonally. In 
other words, each time a vehicle enters 
a new 5-foot square, it can choose any 
of its forward-facing squares—the ones 
directly in front or either of the squares 
directly forward and diagonal. This 
allows the vehicle to swerve. A driver 
who fails her driving check can only 
move into squares directly in front of the 
vehicle’s forward facing.
Decelerate (standard action): With 
a successful driving check, the vehicle’s 
current speed decreases by a rate up to 
its acceleration (in 5-foot increments; 
minimum 5 feet). On a failed check, 
the vehicle does not decelerate. Either 
way, the vehicle can move forward 
diagonally. If deceleration reduces a 
vehicle’s speed to 0, some amount of 
inertia will continue to move the vehicle 
forward. The vehicle moves forward 
(either directly forward or forward 
diagonally) 1d4 × 5 feet before coming 
175
to a complete stop. Having the Expert 
Driver feat reduces this distance by 10 
feet (minimum 0 feet).
Cruise (move action): With a successful 
driving check, the driver can move the 
vehicle forward on its current facing at its 
current speed, and it can move forward 
diagonally. Failing the check keeps the 
speed constant, but you cannot move the 
vehicle forward diagonally.
Reverse (standard action): A vehicle 
may only be moved in reverse if it is at 
a full stop (movement of 0 feet). On a 
successful driving check, a vehicle can 
move backward at half its acceleration, 
moving either directly backward (the 
reverse of its forward facing) or backward 
diagonally. On a failed check, it does not 
move backward.
Turn (no action): At any time during 
Accelerate or Cruise, the driver can 
choose to turn the vehicle. A vehicle 
must be in motion to turn. The driver 
may turn a vehicle’s forward facing up to 
90 degrees. If a vehicle’s current speed is 
twice its acceleration, the driving check 
DC increases by 5. If a vehicle’s movement 
is three times its acceleration, the driving 
check DC increases by 10. If it is four 
or more times its acceleration, the DC 
increases by 20. With a successful driving 
check, the vehicle changes its facing either 
left or right by up to 90 degrees at any 
point during its movement. Do this by 
pivoting the vehicle so that the left rear or 
right rear side of the vehicle takes the place 
of the vehicle’s former forward facing side. 
On a failed check, the vehicle does not 
turn, but can be moved forward diagonally 
during its movement.
Uncontrolled (no action): When the 
driver does nothing or there is no driver, 
the vehicle is uncontrolled. An uncontrolled 
vehicle moves forward only (it cannot 
move forward diagonally). If a vehicle has 
alchemical propulsion, it slows by 10 feet. 
These decelerations are cumulative. If a 
vehicle does nothing, it cannot perform 
vehicular bull rushes, but can still perform a 
vehicular overrun or a ramming maneuver. 
 
Activating a device (standard action) In 
addition to controlling the vehicle, a driver 
may activate a hardpoint mounted weapon 
or device as a standard action. If the device 
is used to make an attack, it uses the drivers 
base attack bonus. For melee attacks the 
vehicle has a set Strength modifier of +10, 
for ranged attacks the driver uses her 
Dexterity modifier. 
Driving a Vehicle Outside of Combat 
Since driving a vehicle outside of combat 
is easily accomplished by taking 10 on the 
skill check, driving checks are not normally 
needed. Almost every character can do it 
with relative ease; the DCs are given only to 
adjudicate special situations that may come 
up in your game.
Driving a Vehicle with Magic 
Propulsion Typically, a vehicle with magic 
propulsion requires actions but no driving 
checks in order to drive it. When driving a 
vehicle with magic propulsion, treat every 
action as though the driver succeeded at 
the driving check.
Driving A Vehicle without the Proper 
Skill If a driver lacks the proper skill to 
drive a vehicle, the driver can always make 
a Wisdom ability check instead of the 
appropriate skill check. The driver can even 
take 10 or gain the benefits of aid another 
when using Wisdom instead of the vehicle’s 
normal driving skill.
Vehicle Crews Some vehicles require 
a crew. A vehicle with a full crew 
complement is as easy to control as any 
176
other vehicle. A vehicle without a full crew 
complement, but with at least half its 
crew, increases all driving check DCs by 
10. A vehicle needs at least half its crew 
complement in order to be driven at all. 
Crew members can take no action while 
the vehicle is in motion except to aid in 
that vehicle’s movement. A crew member 
does not threaten an area.
Vehi Cles  in  Combat
A vehicle in combat can become a target 
for attacks and can affect combatants with 
special vehicular maneuvers. The following 
are the rules for how a vehicle acts in the 
combat round.
Initiative A vehicle moves on its driver’s 
initiative. If a driver delays or readies an 
action, the vehicle goes out of control, and 
does nothing except take the uncontrolled 
action until it stops or someone becomes 
its new driver.
Movement At the start of the driver’s 
turn, she makes a driving check to control 
the vehicle as detailed in the Driving 
Vehicles section. When doing so, she takes 
whatever action is required before doing 
anything else that turn. Vehicles usually 
ignore difficult terrain due to rubble and 
foliage, but treat steep inclines as difficult 
terrain, and depending on the vehicle type 
and GM judgment, they may be affected by 
other difficult terrain types as well.
Vehicles and creatures that occupy 
vehicles can enter the spaces of other 
vehicles and creatures, though doing so 
usually provokes a vehicular overrun or 
ramming maneuver (see Vehicle Combat 
Maneuvers). A vehicle can even end its turn 
in the space of a creature or another vehicle.
Threatening Vehicles do not normally 
threaten areas, but their non-crew 
occupants can. A character driving a vehicle 
still threatens the squares around her, 
though she may have limited options for 
attack depending on the requirements of 
the device used to drive the vehicle. Vehicles 
equipped with melee weapons threaten 
only the squares in that weapons reach.
Line of Sight and Cover Vehicles 
typically grant their occupants partial cover 
(+2 to AC and +1 on Reflex saving throws) 
against those outside the vehicle, and 
may grant partial cover against opponents 
within the vehicles as well. Vehicles with 
more protection or internal chambers can 
offer greater cover and can even block line 
of sight.
Jumping On or Off A Vehicle Jumping 
on a vehicle is a normal jump of its 
distance assuming the vehicle has a deck 
or handholds within the character’s height 
from the ground. Increase the DC of the 
Acrobatics check by 5 for every 30 feet of 
the vehicle’s current speed. If the jumping 
creature is on a moving vehicle, calculate 
the increase in the Acrobatics skill check 
DC by calculating the difference between 
the current speeds of the two vehicles. For 
every difference of 30 feet (round up), the 
DC increases by 5.
For example, jumping onto a vehicle 
with a current speed of 90 feet increases 
the DC by 15 if the jumper is not also on 
a moving vehicle. If the jumper is on a 
moving vehicle, and that vehicle is moving 
at the same current speed as the vehicle 
the jumper wants to jump to, there is 
no increase to the DC. If the difference 
between their speeds is less than 30 feet, 
the DC of the Acrobatics check increases 
by 5. If it’s between 30 and 60, it increases 
by 10, and so on. Jumping off a vehicle 
onto the ground is considered a fall, and 
177
treated as if the fall were an additional 
10 feet farther for every 30 feet of the 
vehicle’s movement for the purposes of 
determining damage. Acrobatics can be 
used to soften this fall, and magic abilities 
such as feather fall can be used to negate 
the effects of jumping off a vehicle.
Taking Control of A Vehicle If a vehicle 
has no driver, any creature can take control 
of the vehicle as long as the creature is 
within the driving space of the vehicle 
and makes a driving check as a free action. 
The vehicle’s driver can always give over 
control to another adjacent creature that 
is within the driving space of the vehicle 
as a free action. When a new creature 
becomes the driver, the vehicle moves on 
the new driver’s turn, but not on the new 
driver’s first turn after taking control of the 
vehicle. If a creature wants to take control 
of a vehicle from another forcefully, it must 
pull the driver off the controls as part of a 
grapple and take over the driving device as 
part of a pin. When a creature successfully 
pins a vehicle’s driver, it can choose to end 
the grapple immediately. When it does, the 
creature moves the current driver 5 feet to 
any unoccupied space within the vehicle 
(this movement does not provoke attacks 
of opportunity) and becomes the vehicle’s 
new driver.
Attacks against Vehicles A vehicle has 
a base Armor Class based on its size and 
other defenses the vehicle has. To calculate 
the vehicle’s actual AC, add the current 
driver’s driving skill modifier (or Wisdom 
modifier, if it is using that ability to drive 
the vehicle) to the vehicle’s base AC. Touch 
attacks against a vehicle ignore its driver’s 
driving skill or ability modifier; thus a 
vehicle’s base AC is its touch AC. A vehicle 
is never considered flat-footed.
A vehicle has a base saving throw listed 
in its stat block. This determines its base 
Fortitude and Reflex saving throw. A 
vehicle is immune to effects that require 
a Will saving throw (though drivers, crew 
members, passengers, and creatures 
providing muscle propulsion typically 
are not). To determine the vehicle’s actual 
Fortitude and Reflex saving throws, add 
half the driver’s driving skill modifier (or 
half the driver’s Wisdom modifier) to the 
vehicle’s base saving throw.
Vehicles have hit points, but do not 
have ability scores, and are immune to 
ability score damage or drain. They are 
also immune to bleed damage. A vehicle 
that takes damage in excess of half its 
total hit points gains the broken condition. 
When a vehicle reaches 0 or fewer hit 
points, but has not yet reached negative 
hit points equal to the number of squares 
of its space, it is wrecked. When a vehicle 
reaches a negative number of hit points 
equal to the number of squares it takes up, 
it is destroyed (see Damaging a Vehicle).
Unlike other objects, vehicles do not take 
half damage from energy attacks, but do 
take half damage from all ranged weapons 
except siege weapons. When attacking 
a vehicle, you can attack the vehicle’s 
structure, occupant, propulsion, driving 
device, or conveyance (if any).
Attacking the Structure This is an attack 
against the vehicle itself. If successful, the 
vehicle takes damage normally.
Attacking an Occupant This is a normal 
attack against an occupant creature. 
Occupants get partial cover or greater if 
the attack is coming from outside of the 
vehicle. Grappling the driver is one method 
for taking control of the vehicle.
Attacking Propulsion Propulsion often 
has its own set of statistics, the hit points 
and hardness determined by multiplying 
178
the values listed in the Propulsion Devices 
sidebar by the vehicle’s total number of 
squares of that type. Individual vehicle 
stat blocks also detail their propulsion. If 
a vehicle has a crew, and more than half 
of that crew is killed, dazed, stunned, or 
rendered unconscious, the vehicle can no 
longer be controlled.
Attacking the Driving Device A driving 
device is its own object with its own 
statistics. When a driving device gains 
the broken condition or is disabled, all 
driving checks are increased by 10. When a 
driving device is destroyed, the vehicle can 
no longer be driven. Driving devices are 
typically objects with object immunities 
and resistances.
Attacking Conveyance An attack 
against wheels, rudders, or similar forms 
of conveyance takes a –10 penalty on the 
attack roll, but does maximum damage to 
the vehicle (no roll necessary). If the attack 
is a critical hit, multiply this maximum 
damage by the critical multiplier of the 
attack. Conveyances are typically objects 
with object immunities and resistances.
Vehicle Combat Maneuvers Vehicles 
typically don’t have attacks, though some 
can be fitted with weapons. A vehicle 
can make, and is often required to make, 
a vehicular bull rush, vehicular overrun, 
or ramming maneuver as part of its 
movement. Unlike creatures, a vehicle can 
enter the space of creatures or objects 
smaller than it, and when it does, it makes 
either a vehicular overrun or vehicular bull 
rush. When a vehicle hits a creature or a 
vehicle that is its size or larger, or it hits 
a solid object (a wall or structure that is 
immobile and has a hardness of 5 or more), 
it makes a ramming maneuver.
Vehicular Overrun Any time any part 
of a vehicle (including any creatures 
used as propulsion) enters the space of 
a creature or vehicle smaller than it, the 
driver must make a vehicular overrun 
combat maneuver against the creature 
or vehicle. This may require the driver to 
make vehicular overrun checks against 
the same creature numerous times as 
new parts of the vehicle enter its square. 
When performing a vehicular overrun, 
the driver uses the base CMB of the 
vehicle plus her driving skill modifier (or 
Wisdom skill modifier if she is using that 
ability to drive the vehicle) as the CMB 
of the vehicular overrun. If the driver 
has feats that improve her CMB when 
overrunning, like the Improved Overrun 
feat, she may also add those modifiers and 
benefits to the vehicular overrun. Like a 
normal overrun, this action provokes an 
attack of opportunity from the creature 
being overrun, unless the driver has the 
Improved Overrun feat. The creature 
being overrun can make this attack of 
opportunity on any part of the vehicle that 
is within reach.
When a vehicular overrun is attempted, 
the target of the overrun may choose to 
avoid the vehicle, allowing the vehicle to 
pass through its space without requiring 
a vehicular overrun maneuver check. 
The creature or vehicle cannot avoid 
a maneuver check if the driver has the 
Improved Overrun feat, the vehicle is two 
or more size categories larger than the 
target, or the target creature is confused, 
dazed, entangled, flat-footed, helpless, 
paralyzed, prone, or stunned. If the target 
does not avoid the vehicle, make the 
combat maneuver check as normal. If the 
maneuver is successful, the vehicle moves 
through the target’s space, and the target 
of the overrun takes the vehicle’s ramming 
damage (see individual vehicle stat blocks 
for their own ramming damage). If the 
driver’s combat maneuver check exceeds 
the target’s CMD by 5 or more, the target 
179
takes twice the vehicle’s ramming damage. 
If the target is a creature, it is also knocked 
prone. If the target has more than two 
legs, it gets a +2 bonus to its CMD for 
each additional leg it has. Vehicles that are 
overrun are knocked prone if the opposing 
driver’s combat maneuver check result 
exceeds the vehicle’s CMD by 10 or more. 
A vehicle that is knocked prone makes a 
sudden stop (see Sudden Stops).
It takes at least 5 full-round actions and 
a DC 25 Strength check from creatures 
adjacent to the vehicle to push a Large 
land vehicle up from being prone. For 
every size category that the vehicle is 
larger than size Large, increase the number 
of full-round actions by three and the 
Strength check DC by 5.
The driver of a prone air vehicle must 
succeed at a DC 25 Fly check immediately 
to avoid falling.
A vehicle equipped with a ram or bumper 
guard deals +2d8 points of damage with a 
vehicular overrun.
Vehicular Bull Rush As a swift action, 
taken when the driver takes all but the 
“uncontrolled” action while driving the 
vehicle, a driver can choose to substitute 
all or some of her vehicular overruns with 
vehicular bull rush maneuvers until the 
end of the vehicle’s movement that turn. 
A vehicular bull rush pushes a creature or 
a vehicle away without doing harm. If the 
driver does not have the Improved Bull 
Rush feat or a similar ability, initiating a 
vehicular bull rush provokes an attack of 
opportunity from the creature being bull 
rushed with the vehicle. If the bull rush 
is successful, the target of the bull rush 
is pushed 5 feet away from the vehicle. If 
you succeed at the check for the vehicular 
bull rush by 5 or more, you can deal the 
vehicle’s ramming damage to the creature. 
For every 5 by which your attack exceeds 
your opponent’s CMD, you push the target 
an additional 5 feet away. A creature being 
moved by a vehicular bull rush does not 
provoke attacks of opportunity, unless the 
driver possesses the Greater Bull Rush feat. 
You cannot bull rush a creature or vehicle 
into a square that is occupied by an object 
(including a vehicle). If there is another 
creature in the way of a bull rush, the 
driver must immediately make a combat 
maneuver check to bull rush that creature, 
taking a –4 penalty on this check for each 
creature being pushed beyond the first. If 
successful, the driver can continue to push 
the creature or vehicle a distance equal to 
the lesser result.
Ramming Any time any part of a vehicle 
enters the space of a creature or vehicle 
of its size or larger, or the space of a solid 
sturdy object (like a wall or a building) no 
matter the size of that object, it makes a 
ramming maneuver against that creature 
or object. There is no maneuver check for 
a ramming maneuver; its effects happen 
automatically. When a vehicle makes a 
ramming maneuver against a creature or 
an object, the vehicle deals its ramming 
damage to the creature or object, and the 
vehicle takes half that damage. The base 
amount of damage that a ramming vehicle 
does and takes is determined by its size 
(see individual vehicle stat blocks for their 
own ramming damage). When a vehicle 
makes a ramming maneuver against a solid 
object, to determine how much damage 
both the solid object and the vehicle take, 
allow the vehicle to enter the solid object’s 
space. The vehicle will only travel through 
that space if the damage is enough to 
destroy the solid object; in all other cases 
the vehicle takes the damage and then 
comes to a sudden stop directly in front of 
the solid object.
180
When a vehicle makes a ramming 
maneuver against a creature, a non-solid 
object, or another vehicle, it can enter the 
space of the object or the creature, and 
even end its move within that space.
Damaging a Vehicle Vehicles have hit 
points and hardness based on their primary 
components. Most vehicles are made of 
metal. A vehicle has a total number of hit 
points equal to its base material hit point 
value times its number of squares (metal 
vehicles have 20 hit points per square and a 
hardness of ten, double if magically treated 
or enchanted). When it is reduced to below 
half hit points, it becomes broken. When it 
reaches 0 hit points, it becomes wrecked. 
When it reaches negative hit points equal 
to 5 times its number of squares, it is 
destroyed—it is so damaged it cannot even 
be used for scrap material.
Broken Condition Vehicles, and 
sometimes their methods of propulsion, 
are objects, and like any other object, when 
they take damage in excess of half their 
hit points, they gain the broken condition. 
When a vehicle gains the broken condition, 
it takes a –2 penalty to AC, on saving throws, 
and on combat maneuver checks, and the 
DC to drive the vehicle increases by 2. If a 
vehicle or its means of propulsion becomes 
broken, both the maximum speed and the 
acceleration of the vehicle are halved until 
repaired. If the vehicle is in motion, and 
is traveling faster than its new maximum 
speed, it automatically decelerates to its 
new maximum speed.
Wrecked Condition A vehicle gains 
the wrecked condition if its hit points are 
reduced to 0 or fewer. A wrecked vehicle 
cannot be driven and gains the sinking 
condition (if in the water) or falls (if in the 
air). An air vehicle that begins to fall does 
so at a rate of half its maximum speed each 
round. If a means of propulsion is reduced 
to 0 or fewer hit points, it does not gain the 
wrecked condition. It is instead destroyed.
Destroyed A vehicle is destroyed when 
it is reduced to a number of negative 
hit points equal to 5 times its number of 
squares. A destroyed vehicle cannot be 
repaired, and is nothing more than junk. If a 
vehicle’s means of propulsion is an object, it 
is destroyed when it reaches 0 hit points.
If either the means of propulsion or the 
vehicle is destroyed, it comes to a sudden 
stop if it is not stopped already. Water 
vehicles sink and drop to the bottom of the 
body of water. Air vehicles fall.
Sudden Stops When a vehicle comes to 
a sudden stop—its movement is reduced 
to 0 in some way other than the driver 
using a drive action to slow the vehicle—
both creatures and items on the vehicle 
are violently pushed toward the vehicle’s 
forward facing a number of squares equal 
to 1/2 the vehicle’s current speed before it 
came to the sudden stop. This movement 
does not provoke attacks of opportunity. 
At the end of this movement, creatures and 
objects take 1d6 points of damage, and 
creatures must succeed at a DC 20 Reflex 
saving throw or be knocked prone. If the 
movement pushes creatures or objects into 
solid objects, that creature or object takes 
an additional 1d6 points of damage for each 
5-foot square the push was reduced by the 
solid object. For instance, if a vehicle with 
a movement of 60 feet makes a sudden 
stop due to hitting a brick wall, its driver 
is thrown 30 feet toward the brick wall. If 
the brick wall was only 5 feet away from 
the driver at the point of impact, the driver 
moves forward 5 feet, hits the wall, and 
takes 5d6 points of damage. She then takes 
the original 1d6 points of damage, after 
which she makes a Reflex saving throw to 
see if she falls prone for the sudden stop.
181
Repairing A Vehicle The fastest and 
easiest way to repair a vehicle is with the 
mending and make whole spells, but 
more mundane methods can also be used. 
Craft (vehicles) can be used to repair most 
land vehicles made of metal; because 
of their specialized construction, water 
vehicles require Craft (ships) to repair. 
Depending on the nature of the damage, 
such skills like Craft (cloth), Craft (alchemy), 
Knowledge (engineering), and even 
various professions can be used to repair 
vehicles, if the GM approves. In general, 
a day’s worth of work by a single person 
using the appropriate skill to repair a 
vehicle requires 20 gp of raw material and 
a DC 10 skill check, and repairs 20 points of 
damage on a success, or 10 hit points on a 
failure.
rolling  road  Combat
The desert sands start to vibrate as the 
distant battle convoy rolls closer. Thundering 
into view is a massive rig bedecked in armor, 
spikes, and guns. This truck is surrounded by 
an army of smaller vehicles. Some are trying 
to defend it, and some trying to attack. The 
combatants are firing makeshift weapons 
and hurling themselves and their vehicles 
into the fray, sometimes landing a blow 
and sometimes falling to the rough earth 
never to be seen again. The battle is fast and 
merciless, and the winners and losers are 
determined by the slimmest margins and the 
barest luck. 
We long held an idea of playing in a 
world with epic vehicle combat on a fast 
rolling stretch of ground. Vehicles large 
and small vying for space and crashing 
into each other as gunners and fighters 
battled in and on top of those vehicles. 
Many stories and classic films were used 
as inspiration, and we feel that these rules 
allow for combats that have that same 
flavor and flair while still maintaining the 
level of simplicity and logic as normal 
combat in the Pathfinder Roleplaying Game.
Combat  basi Cs
Combat on a rolling road is fairly 
simple, it combines elements of the 
standard vehicle rules and the rules for 
normal combat with a constantly moving 
landscape giving the feel of high speed 
while on paper it plays out very much 
the same as stationary combat. Everyone 
faces the same direction and positions 
are relatively static to each other. Each 
character or vehicle moving and fighting 
on their turn as necessary. In addition to 
the normal rules, combat is modified in the 
following ways. 
 
Road Speed The entire combat area 
(represented by a stationary grid) is 
moving at a set speed measured in feet. 
If vehicles or characters have a top speed 
or base speed equal to or faster than 
the road speed, they appear static in 
relation to each other when moving at the 
road speed. The road speed is going to 
determine where the focus of your battle 
map area is located, and is usually set to 
the current speed of the largest vehicle or 
group of vehicles, but the GM may choose 
to set the road speed at any value.
Direction of Travel During rolling road 
combat the terrain is continuously moving 
from the direction of travel past the players 
and off the other side. An object or player 
who is not moving will move opposite the 
direction of travel at a speed equal to the 
road speed at the beginning of each round.
Acceleration Vehicles have a specified 
acceleration value, this is the amount 
they can move on a rolling road per turn, 
this is similar to base movement speed 
during normal combat. Characters who 
do not have an acceleration value are able 
182
The middle bur-ra-dum decides to move 10 feet to his left. The truk is equipped with 
wheel spikes so if it moves to his right it will take damage. 
A truk and two bur-ra-dums are traveling on a rolling road. The direction of travel is to 
the right, and the road speed is 30 feet. A stationary obstacle enters from the right edge, 
a rock.

183
At the beginning of the next round, the rock will move 30 feet again, and eventually 
proceed out of the battle map area.
At the beginning of each round, any stationary objects or creatures are moved with 
the rolling road a distance equal to the road speed. In this case, the rock moves left 30 
feet. The bur-ra-dum has already moved out of the way on the previous turn, so it doesn’t 
need to worry about taking damage and making a sudden stop when impacting a large 
obstacle. 

184
to move the amount of base speed they 
have greater than the current road speed. 
A vehicle’s total speed while moving (road 
speed plus acceleration) can never be more 
than its listed top speed.
Movement During rolling road combat 
all vehicle drivers or running creatures are 
considered to maintain forward movement 
in the direction of travel at the current road 
speed as a free action at the beginning 
of the round. This is similar to the Cruise 
action. If they choose to move, on their 
turn they can accelerate or decelerate 
as a move action, but they can move in 
any direction up to their acceleration (or 
remaining base speed for creatures) and do 
not change the direction they are facing.  
Combat Maneuvers Some combat 
maneuvers are modified in the following 
ways. Successful bull rush attempts move 
their opponent for double the distance 
when moving opposite the direction of 
travel. During rolling road combat the 
ground is usually considered intrinsically 
dangerous for the purpose of using 
reposition. Foes who have been tripped 
and are knocked prone are no longer 
moving and may be subject to falling 
damage. Creatures who are moving on 
a rolling road and enter the grappled 
condition are no longer moving. 
Charge You only need to move 5 feet 
before you make a charge attack. (Normal: 
You must move at least 10 feet (2 squares) 
and may move up to double your speed 
directly toward the designated opponent. )
Jumping Any jump made while moving 
on a rolling road is considered to have a 
running start, regardless of the direction 
of the jump. Obviously jumps made from 
vehicles do not have this advantage. 
Falling Falling off a mount or vehicle at 
high speeds during rolling road combat 
is especially dangerous. When a creature 
falls from a vehicle and strikes the ground, 
their speed is reduced to zero. When they 
strike the ground, move them a number of 
feet opposite the direction of travel equal 
to the road speed, in addition, the creature 
takes 1d6 of bludgeoning damage for each 
square (of 5ft increment) traveled. Apply 
each d6 separately as well as any damage 
from being overrun during this movement 
separately. If an acrobatics check is 
attempted to negate this damage and land 
on your feet when falling from a vehicle, 
the base DC is 15, increase the DC of the 
Acrobatics check by 5 for every 30 feet of 
the vehicle’s current speed(rounded up).
185
Vehi Cles
the  follo Wing  se Ction  Contains  the  most  Common  
base  Vehi Cles  in  the  saVage  Company  setting , but  
the  rules  allo W for  any  number  or  style  of  Custom  
Vehi Cular  Creations . large  and  small  all  Vehi Cles  
ha Ve some  similar  Chara Cteristi Cs: they  must  ha Ve 
propulsion , Con Veyan Ce, and  a dri Ving  spa Ce. and  all  
of  these  things  ha Ve different  stats  depending  on  the  
material  used .

186
land  Vehi Cles
These are the most common types of 
vehicles you will encounter. They are 
easily customizable and their modular 
construction means that adding vehicle 
modifications will allow you to build a 
vehicle to suit almost any need. 
Bur -ra -du M
This loud two-wheeled onomatopoeia 
named vehicle is sometimes used as a 
fighting platform or for transporting a 
mounted gun onto the battlefield. Many 
different configurations exist, adding 
rear wheels or side-cars, or sometimes 
replacing the wheels with tracks. Those 
who feel the rumble and wind of riding 
a bur-ra-dum are members of a singular 
brotherhood. 
Large Land vehicle; Squares 2 (5 ft. by 10 
ft.; 5 feet high); Cost 800 gp 
(with trike or sidecar, Squares 3 (10 ft. by 
10 ft.; 5 feet high); Cost 1200 gp)
de FeNse
AC 8; Hardness 10 
hp 40 
(as trike or sidecar hp 60) 
Base Save +1
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 120; Acceleration 90 
Attack Mounted Gun 
(with Sidecar Mounted Gun x2) 
Attack ram 1d8 
CMB +2; CMD 12
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing toward the front wheel of 
the vehicle 
Driving Device throttle and handlebars 
Driving Space the most rearward square 
of the vehicle
bur -ra-dum
187
dirt Bike
This small two-wheeled off-road vehicle 
is used to quickly traverse rough terrain. 
It is nimble and light, but comes with the 
drawbacks of not holding much or being 
very durable. 
Medium Land vehicle; Squares 1 (5 ft. by 5 
ft.; 5 feet high); Cost 500 gp
deFeNse
AC 14; Hardness 10 
hp 20 
Base Save +1
oFFeNse
Maximum Speed 100; Acceleration 100; 
Special Ignores Rough Terrain 
Attack ram 1d6 
CMB +1; CMD 10
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing toward the front wheel of 
the vehicle 
Driving Device throttle and handlebars 
Driving Space the single square of the 
vehicle
dirt  B uggy
This lightweight four-wheeled vehicle 
is used to quickly ferry up to three 
passengers across rough terrain. It is light 
and fast, but can be modified to add extra 
weapons and armor. 
Large Land vehicle; Squares 4 (10 ft. by 10 
ft.; 5 feet high); Cost 600 gp
de FeNse
AC 8; Hardness 10 
hp 80 
Base Save +1
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 120; Acceleration 60; 
Special Ignores Rough Terrain 
Attack turret 
Attack ram 1d8 
CMB +2; CMD 12
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing toward the front wheels 
of the vehicle 
Driving Device steering wheel and pedals 
Driving Space the left forward square of 
the vehicle
dirt  bike
188
goat -cart
The most basic of alchemical-engined 
vehicles; this tiny four-wheeled cart is used 
to train new recruits on how to operate 
vehicles. It has no room for armaments and 
is fairly weak to incoming damage, but still 
operates like a vehicle. It is named after a 
cart pulled by a goat because of its similar 
size, but no goats were harmed during the 
construction of this vehicle.
Medium Land vehicle; Squares 1 (5 ft. by 5 
ft.; 5 feet high); Cost 500 gp
de FeNse
AC 10; Hardness 5 
hp 20 
Base Save +1
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 30; Acceleration 30  
Attack ram 1d6 
CMB +1; CMD 10
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing toward the front wheels 
of the vehicle 
Driving Device steering wheel and pedals 
Driving Space the singular square of the 
vehicle
Hea vy Carrier
A sturdy platform for carrying guns or 
people, the eight-wheeled heavy carrier 
is well built but its durability comes at the 
cost of speed. The vehicle is fully enclosed 
with multiple hatches and doors for access.  
Huge Land vehicle; Squares 12 (15 ft. by 
20 ft.; 10 feet high); Cost 1,500 gp
de FeNse
AC 10; Hardness 10 
hp 300 
Base Save +4
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 80; Acceleration 20 
Attack ram 2d8 
CMB +4; CMD 16
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine (3 squares 
at the rear of the vehicle) 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing toward the front wheels 
of the vehicle 
Driving Device steering wheel and pedals 
Driving Space the left forward square of 
the vehicle
load
Decks 2 
Cargo Up to 3 tons or 10 passengers. 
 
Thrashcan
Combining both the utility of a mount 
and the protection of a vehicle, this 
medium sized two-legged machine uses 
tracks and wheels to quickly traverse rough 
terrain. Its costly construction includes 
upgraded armor and durable materials. 
Many different types of weapons can be 
mounted on its squat cylindrical body that 
contains two body hard-points and a single 
turret hard-point. Using a turret mounted 
weapon or a hard-point mounted melee 
weapon is an attack action performed by 
the pilot. Activating a hard-point mounted 
device or ranged weapon is often a 
standard action. These war machines are 
often highly customized by their pilots 
and enable a Small soldier to be a force 
multiplier on the battlefield. The pilot’s 
head and shoulders protrude from the top 
of the turret and he controls the vehicle 
with pedals and levers, he also gains the 
benefits of being inside a vehicle as he 
cannot be unseated or fall off and like any 
vehicle gains partial cover when inside the 
thrashcan.
189
The turret is unique in that it is designed 
to mount Medium two-handed ranged 
weapons.  Medium sized weapons 
mounted to the turret of a thrashcan are 
capable of being fired by the Small sized 
driver with no size penalty. 
The thrashcan’s body, legs, and turret 
all swivel independently, making them 
unique among vehicles as they can turn 
360 degrees at any time and do not use 
facing rules. Thrashcan movement is the 
same as any Medium sized character. 
Thrashcans will only fit Small sized pilots 
not wearing heavy armor.
 
 
 
 
Medium Land vehicle; Squares 1 (5 ft. by 5 
ft.; 5 feet high); Cost 5,000 gp
de FeNse
AC 14; Hardness 10 
hp 40 
Base Save +1
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 60; Acceleration 60; 
Special Ignores Rough Terrain 
Attack mounted weapon (one turret, two 
body hard-points) 
Attack ram 1d6 
CMB +1; CMD 10
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing any direction 
Driving Device pedals and throttle 
Driving Space the singular square of the 
vehicle
thrash Can
190
thu MP ster
Like a larger version of the thrashcan, the 
thumpster is a special upright alchemical 
vehicle with extra points for attachments 
that allows a Medium sized character to 
operate on a larger scale.
Due to the unique construction and 
size constraints with piloting the vehicle, 
the turret can only mount Medium 
sized two-handed ranged weapons. The 
thumpster’s body, legs, and turret all swivel 
independently, much like the thrashcan 
as they can turn 360 degrees at any time 
and do not use facing rules. Thumpster 
movement is the same as any large sized 
character. Thumpsters will only fit a single 
Medium sized pilot not wearing heavy 
armor. 
thumpster

191
Large Land Vehicle; Squares 4 (10 ft. by 10 
ft.; 10 feet high); Cost 20,000 gp
de FeNse
AC 12; Hardness 10 
hp 110 
Base Save +1
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 40; Acceleration 40; 
Special Ignores Rough Terrain 
Attack mounted weapon (one turret hard-
point, two body hard-points) 
Attack ram 1d8 
CMB +2; CMD 12
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing any direction 
Driving Device pedals and throttle 
Driving Space the intersection of the four 
squares of the vehicle
truk
This big cargo vehicle has an open 
top and flatbed with low sides that can 
carry many things including people and 
mounted guns. 
Huge Land vehicle; Squares 8 (10 ft. by 20 
ft.; 10 feet high); Cost 800 gp
de FeNse
AC 6; Hardness 10 
hp 160 
Base Save +2
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 100; Acceleration 30 
Attack ram 2d8 
CMB +4; CMD 16
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing toward the front wheel of 
the vehicle 
Driving Device steering wheel and pedals 
Driving Space the left forward square of 
the vehicle
truk
192
War -rig
The pinnacle in wheeled battle 
conveyance, this massive truck and trailer 
can be modified to carry a large number of 
warriors, weapons, or large tools. No road 
battling tribe would be complete without 
at least one of these immense rolling death 
machines taking the prize position in the 
convoy. 
 
Colossal Land vehicle; Squares 36 (15 ft. 
by 60 ft.; 20 feet high); Cost 60,000 gp
de FeNse
AC 2; Hardness 10 
hp 720 
Base Save +0
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 100; Acceleration 20 
Attack mounted guns, if any (4 turrets on 
rear section of the vehicle) 
Attack ram 8d8 
CMB +8; CMD 16
drive
Propulsion Alchemical Engine 
Driving Check Ride check or Profession 
(driver) 
Forward Facing toward the front wheel of 
the vehicle 
Driving Device steering wheel 
Driving Space the 3rd center square from 
the forward edge of the vehicle
load
Decks 2 
Cargo Up to 9 tons or 30 passengers.
193
War-rig
194
air  Vehi Cles
While not especially uncommon, air 
vehicles are expensive, costly and time 
intensive to maintain, and mainly used 
for bulk transport of both cargo and 
passengers.
Behe Moth  class  War  zePP eli N 
This exotic and expensive vehicle is held 
aloft by a series of internal balloons housed 
inside its rigid frame construction. The 
twin cylindrical hulls house the multiple 
gas cells filled with an inert lighter than 
air gas, as well as decks on their lower 
portions and weapons. Between the hulls 
is a superstructure containing the bridge 
at the front, a hangar bay amidships, and 
additional crew and cargo room. The top 
of the ship has been outfitted with a large 
open platform that may be used for many 
different purposes, and both stairs and a 
freight elevator run from the upper deck 
to the underbelly of the ship, with ladders, 
stairs, or platforms that can be extended to 
the ground when parked. 
Colossal+ Air vehicle; Squares 6400 (200 
ft. by 800 ft.); Cost 300,000 gp
de FeNse
AC 5; Hardness 10; SR 22
hp 2880 
Base Save +0
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 100 ft.; Acceleration 10 
ft. (300 miles per day high altitude cruise)
Weapons 12 Huge direct-fire siege engines 
in banks of six on the port and starboard 
sides of the ship. The siege engines may 
only fire out the sides of the ship they are 
positioned on. They cannot be swiveled 
to fire toward the forward or aft sides of 
the ship. The two observation decks at the 
front of the cylindrical hulls each house a 
heavy ballista that can only fire forward of 
the ship. 
Attack ram 32d8
CMB +32; CMD 72
drive
Propulsion current (air), alchemical 
engines, and magic
Driving Check none (magic), or ride, 
Profession (driver) or Knowledge 
(engineering)
Forward Facing the ship’s forward
Driving Device magic item
Driving Space the nine squares around 
the controlling magic item that sits bridge 
of the ship
Crew 20
load
Decks 10
Cargo Up to 500 tons and 200 passengers.
cargo  airshi P
This more common airship is held aloft 
by a massive dirigible connected by chains 
to a wooden ship that hangs below. This 
ship is similar to a sailing ship, complete 
with an open top, and is propelled by an 
alchemical engine that generates steam 
to spin turbines mounted outside the hull. 
Passengers and cargo are carried in the 
ship.
Colossal Air vehicle; Squares 48 (20 ft. by 
60 ft.); Cost 25,000 gp
de FeNse
AC 2; Hardness 5
hp 720 
Base Save +0
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 100 ft.; Acceleration 30 ft.
Weapons Up to 6 Large direct-fire siege 
engines in banks of 3 positioned on the port 
and starboard sides of the airship, or up to 
4 Huge direct-fire siege engines in banks of 
two on the port and starboard sides of the 
ship. The siege engines may only fire out 
the sides of the ship they are positioned on. 
They cannot be swiveled to fire toward the 
forward or aft sides of the ship.
195
Attack ram 8d8
CMB +8; CMD 18
drive
Propulsion current (air; 90 squares of 
dirigible, hp 450) and alchemical engines
Driving Check ride, Profession (driver) or 
Profession (sailor)
Forward Facing the ship’s forward
Driving Device ship’s wheel located at the 
elevated helm station near the rear of the 
vehicle
Driving Space the helm station at the rear 
of the ship
load
Decks 2
Cargo Up to 30 tons or 100 passengers.
laNdi Ng B oat
This large, amphibious flying vessel is 
used to transport soldiers and equipment 
over short distances. Landing boats will 
often be carried on larger airships to ferry 
between the ship and the ground. Large 
groups of landing boats are often used to 
swiftly deliver fighting forces silently to 
their destination. 
Huge Flying vehicle; Squares 20 (10 ft. by 
50 ft.; 5 feet high); Cost 9,000 gp
de FeNse
AC 10; Hardness 10
hp 240
Base Save +2
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 70; Acceleration 30
Attack ram 2d8
CMB +2; CMD 12
drive
Propulsion current (water), magic
Driving Check none (magic), DC 10 (water)
Forward Facing the ship’s forward
Driving Device magic item
Driving Space the two squares left and 
right of the controlling magic item that sits 
in the rear center of the ship
load
Decks 1
Cargo Up to 10,000 lbs. or 11 passengers
War  zePP eli N
This massive rigid hull inflatable aircraft 
is built to carry implements of war into the 
upper atmosphere. Inside the long cigar 
shaped structure are gas bags are divided 
into multiple compartments so that the 
vessel can withstand punctures. The 
belly of the craft houses the bridge, crew 
quarters, cargo spaces. Some war zeppelins 
are configured as gunships with up to 8 
siege engines (4 on each side of the ship) 
while others are carriers that utilize drop 
seal or parachute equipped troops and 
equipment.
Colossal Air vehicle; Squares 48 (interior 
usable space, 20 ft. by 60 ft.; 30 ft. high); 
Cost 60,000 gp
de FeNse
AC 2; Hardness 7
hp 720 
Base Save +0
oFF eNse
Maximum Speed 90 ft.; Acceleration 30 ft.
Weapons typically 8 large direct-fire siege 
weapons
Attack ram 8d8
CMB +8; CMD 18
drive
Propulsion alchemical steam engines; the 
engine is located at the rear of the internal 
space and pipes steam to outboard 
turbines located along the underside of 
the rigid hull.
Driving Check ride, Profession (driver) or 
Knowledge (engineering)
Forward Facing the front edge of the 
vehicle
Driving Device steering wheel, throttle 
Driving Space the helm is located in the 
196
bridge, which is the most forward section 
of the upper deck of the usable interior 
space in the belly of the ship
Crew 4 (pilot, navigator, and at least two 
engineers)
load
Decks 2 
Cargo Up to 10 tons or 60 passengers.
Vehi Cle  modifi Cations
   Modifications to vehicles are key to 
building your dream machine. With this 
extensive list of defensive and offensive 
modifications (and don’t forget about 
vehicle specific weapons) you can 
customize a base vehicle into nearly 
anything you want. Some modifications 
are incompatible with others however, you 
cannot add two modifications that modify 
the same part (like wheels or legs). Most 
modifications are less specific and it will 
be up to you and you GM to determine if a 
total configuration is feasible.  
 
arMored  hatch
Price 1,000 gp. 
   The armored hatch provides improved 
cover for the driver of the vehicle when 
closed, but the driver suffers a –4 penalty on 
Perception checks. Can be opened from the 
outside with a DC 20 Disable Device check.   
arMored  track
Price 10,000 gp. 
   The vehicles method of conveyance is 
converted to metal tracks with armored 
skirts. The conveyance is now unable to be 
individually targeted and the base carrying 
capacity is increased by 50%.
BuMP er  guard
Price 1,500 gp. 
This large metal construction of bars 
extends from the front or sides of the 
vehicle granting an additional +2d8 
damage when making a ram attack.
cli MB iNg gear
Price 4,800 gp.  
   A thrashcan or thumpster with climbing 
gear is capable of movement on vertical 
surfaces or even upside down along 
ceilings. It’s climb speed and acceleration 
is 20 feet. Severely slippery surfaces—icy, 
oiled, or greased surfaces—make the 
climbing gear useless. the climbing gear 
can be used for 10 minutes, split up as the 
wearer chooses (minimum 1 minute per 
use). Once the 10 minutes are exhausted 
the gear needs to be refitted with new 
alchemical adhesive reagents costing 100 
gp, this process takes an uninterrupted 10 
minutes. The climbing gear modifies the 
legs of the thrashcan or thumpster and 
takes up one hard-point on the body.
cra Ne
Price 2,000 gp. 
   This extendable arm allows a vehicle 
melee weapon to be used with a reach 
appropriate to the size of the Vehicle. A 
crane mounted on a Gargantuan or larger 
vehicle can be modified to have a seat 
or turret mounted on the end instead of 
a weapon. The cost listed is for Medium 
vehicles, for each larger size category add 
an additional 2000 gp.
ejectio N seat
Price 2,000 gp. 
   As a swift action, this mechanism releases 
special quick detach restraints and using a 
powerful spring mounted under the seat 
launches the occupant through the air and 
up to 30ft. from the vehicle. The person 
197
being launched can control their vector 
and land in a spot of their choosing with 
a DC20 Acrobatics check. If the check is 
failed the landing location is random. This 
seat must be reset before it can be used 
again, this process takes an uninterrupted 
10 minutes.
Fla Meguard
Price 2,000 gp. 
   When activated, jets of fire spray out from 
the underside of a vehicle and deal 4d6 
Fire damage to anything in an adjacent 
square. Once activated these flames 
continue to spray from the vehicle for 2d4 
rounds until exhausted. Any creature hit 
by the flaming streams must also succeed 
at a DC 20 Reflex save or catch fire, taking 
an additional 2d6 points of damage each 
round until the flames are extinguished. A 
burning creature can attempt a new save 
as a full-round action, and dropping and 
rolling on the ground grants a +2 bonus on 
this save. This is a single use item and must 
be replaced entirely after activation.
headla MP
Price 120 gp. 
   120ft cone of bright illumination, 
function as long as the alchemical or 
magically powered vehicle is capable of 
running, can be activated or deactivated 
as a free action. multiple lamps may be 
installed on a vehicle to cover as many 
angles as desired.  
hard Poi Nt 
Price 2,000 gp.
A hardpoint for mounting equipment 
or weapons. Hardpoints are mounted 
on the exterior of the vehicle, but their 
components take up a full adjacent square 
inside the vehicle. The vehicle must have 
an unoccupied square on an exterior edge 
for this modification to be added.
juMP  jets
Price 10,800 gp.  
   As a standard action these solid fuel 
rockets strapped to your vehicle propel 
you through the air up to 760ft. If you 
arrive in a place that is already occupied 
by a solid body, you instead land on the 
nearest unoccupied space and deal Ram 
damage appropriate to your vehicle size. 
Your flight must be uninterrupted, if your 
flight path is obstructed in any way, you 
strike the obstruction dealing your vehicles 
ram damage and then falling from that 
point. All falling damage is reduced by one 
half, this modifies the legs and or wheels 
of the vehicle. Jump jets may be used 
one time before they require refueling. 
Refueling jump jets requires 300 gp of 
unique alchemical reagents, this process 
takes an uninterrupted 10 minutes. The 
base cost and refueling costs are x4 for 
each size category above Medium. 
litter  racks
Price 350 gp.
These detachable pods can hold 
2 medium sized creatures or 4 small 
creatures and provide them with total 
cover, but requires a full round action seal 
or unseal and the operation must be done 
from outside.
MaNiPulator  arM
Price 350 gp.
When mounted on a hardpoint, this 
modification allows the manipulation 
of controls, retrieval of items, open or 
close doors, and use of Disable Device 
and Sleight of Hand at a range of 15 
feet. Working at a distance increases the 
normal skill check DC by 5, and you cannot 
take 10 on this check. Any object to be 
manipulated must weigh 5 pounds or less.
198
rei NF orced  chassis
Price Cost 10,000 gp per 5ft square of the 
vehicle’s size. 
   A vehicle constructed with a reinforced 
chassis has a 50% reduced base speed and 
acceleration, the base carrying capacity 
is increased by 50%, and an increased 
hitpoint total by +50% of its base hit 
points.
seco Nd eNgi Ne
Price Varies (25% of the base cost of the 
Vehicle) 
   Installing a second engine removes any 
speed penalties caused by modifications 
and provides a redundant propulsion 
system, at the expense of doubling fuel 
consumption. Both engines must be 
targeted and disabled to stop the vehicle 
by this method.
shield  P aNels
Price 600 gp per 5ft square of the vehicle’s 
size 
   This collection of sturdy metal panels 
can be attached to the exterior of a vehicle 
adding +4 to the vehicles total AC. Shield 
panels do not stack with upgraded armor.
sile Nt ruNN iNg
Price 3,750 gp 
   This upgrade muffles the engine and 
wraps any noisy equipment in fabric, 
removing any penalty to Stealth checks the 
vehicle may have. This modifies the legs 
and or wheels of the vehicle.  
Normal: A vehicle with alchemical 
propulsion suffers a -10 penalty to stealth 
checks.
sMoke  lau Ncher
Price 374 gp  
   When activated five tubes launch smoke 
grenades away from the vehicle, placing 
a 30ft by 60ft line of alchemical smoke 
within 100 ft of the vehicle’s position. 
The smoke obscures all sight, including 
darkvision, beyond 5 feet. A creature within 
5 feet has concealment (attacks have a 
20% miss chance). Creatures farther away 
have total concealment (50% miss chance, 
and the attacker can’t use sight to locate 
the target through the smoke). The Smoke 
Launcher contains 3 charges and must be 
replaced once these are expended.  
A moderate wind (11+ mph) disperses 
the smoke in 4 rounds; a strong wind (21+ 
mph) disperses the smoke in 1 round.
turret  
Price 2,000 gp
   A turret allows for the mounting of a 
weapon that can be operated by a single 
creature, often able to rotate and give 
significant fields of fire. To install a turret, 
you must have a single unoccupied square 
of the vehicle capable of being occupied 
by a creature.
uPgraded  arMor
Price 10,000 gp per 5ft square of the 
vehicle’s size 
   Made from steel and adamantine plates, 
upgraded armor provides an armor bonus 
of +4 to the vehicles base AC and the 
vehicle also gains an additional 50% bonus 
to its base hit points and a hardness of 20. 
Upgraded armor does not stack with shield 
panels.
Wheel  sPikes
Price 2,000 gp 
   When the side of a vehicle equipped 
with wheel spikes comes into base contact 
with another vehicle it makes a free ram 
attack against the conveyance of that 
vehicle. Against creatures this is a normal 
ram attack. This is in addition to any other 
actions the vehicle may take. This modifies 
the legs and or wheels of the vehicle. 
199
rumble
We roll.
With my motorous mates beside me, we munch through these quiet wheels and 
miles undisturbed. Quiet but for the cacophonous rumblings of the Buradhooms, 
the roaring of the war wagon’s boom-boulder, the grindings of the gear-boxes. These 
smooth miles are a gift from on high. A time for waiting. A time when navigations have 
succeeded, and we fix our eyes on the ‘rizon and ROLL. My buggy’s buzzing along with 
all the best noises. All the twiddling is in top-notch, and nothing more is needed but 
to feed it.
Oh, HO! What’s this? Newly forged rollers think they’re sneaky going to catch us on 
the nod? Not this time, fresh flesh, for I see yer by the signs; that ripple in the air from 
the heat of your ‘shaust and the bit of smoke wisping away on yonder breezes. I know 
where they mean to meet us and it’s a goodly enough bit o road for a RUMBLE. I see 
the rest have seen em too, the ripple of anticipation rolls through the convoy like a 
shudder. I check the shells in my gun, them twin brass asses lookin ready for a smack; 
well, soon enough, lads, I’ll send you on your barking way, haha! I smack the new 
guy in my bucket seat awake. He’s a half-shaved half-hyena and half-witted to boot. 
Damn fresh-flesh brought a frickin TRIGGER-BOW; ye gods of thunder and road save us 
from such. I roll my eyes as I lower my gogs watchin him wind the thrice-cursed bit of 
antiquery. 
Now the quiet time is done, and we starts to BOOMING. The music of the motors 
intensifies. Two disjointed giant serpents of smoke and rage collide on their sides, and 
we get to work. The long-guns sound first, and some of the top-riders fall, oh sweet 
music! Closer in and the constant cracking of the cut-down guns starts to bark. One 
eager fresh-flesh drove his dirt-bike too close to our rig, and the driver swerved it 
ever-so expertly; one more fool to feed the vultures; blood in the sand and scrap in the 
desert; roadkill for the road god, oh yes. 
It’s my turn now, some mother trucker has closed the distance, so I give him a nudge, 
he handles it alright, but that nattering gnoll in my bucket has blown his load into the 
engine compartment! I clout him in the snout and slap the brass asses of my shells 
through the cab of that mother trucker, she peels off unguided. The booming under 
my bonnet sounds not quite right. I make the gnoll grab the tiller as I climb over the 
windscreen. If I can’t fix it easy, I may feed him through the blasted fan and see if 
she likes that! I spot the prob in a flash, a quick bit o work, and engine two is back to 
cycling with one less boom-tube. Wasn’t actually chuckle-heads fault, so he gets to 
keep on sucking smoke, but I won’t tell him that. Let him learn. Now the rest of them 
that thought to take us on is peeling off, some of our high-flyers managed to take one 
200
Wondrous  items
Wondrous items are a key component 
of any character’s gear. These new items 
will likely become standard choices for 
many players, either as purchased or issued 
equipment. 
arca Ne toMe
Price 42,500 gp; Aura faint transmutation; 
CL 9th; Weight 1 lb. 
This well-made tome is always of small 
size, typically no more than 12 inches tall, 
8 inches wide, and 1 inch thick. All such 
books are durable, waterproof, bound 
with thick iron bands inlaid with intricate 
of their trucks, so the smoldering serpent grows. Me and mine own these roads; by the 
might of our arms and the grit of our gristle. Reload, reset, repair, and refuel. Re-ready 
for the next time, along the next mile.
NOPE! No quiet miles for this convoy of killers, this might be our end. The sound of 
our rumble must have wakened a thrice-blasted sand-kraken from its tenuous winks. I 
gets an idea like a flash, a blessing from on high. I get the gnoll to starting lashing fuel 
cans to the front bump as I put the metal pedal down hard. I’m closer to the back of 
the pack, so I have a goodly ways to pile on the V before I get to meet that kranky krab, 
and after I pull the lever that fills my pistons with that righteous brew of alchemical 
stew, that V comes on STRONG. I don’t know if the gnoll has time to learn his lessons, 
but it’s too late now. We’re going to blow the buggy’s boulders, and we’re going to 
meet our makers; him, me, and the buggy makes three. We’re going to reach the 
heavens on a pillar of FIRE, and live forever in the campfire stories. I laugh as we meet 
our fate like a thunderbolt;
 The world. Is. Boom
magi C items
While  this  book  does  ha Ve a strong  fo Cus  on  enabling  
lo W magi C games , magi C items  are  often  an  integral  
part  of  the  Campaign . W e ha Ve in Cluded  a fe W 
essentials  that  should  help  round  out  any  Chara Cter  
and  expand  the  options  for  your  players .
arCane  tome
201
silver designs, and locked. A wizard can fill 
the infinite pages of an Arcane Tome with 
spells without paying the 100 gp per page 
material cost. This book is never found as 
randomly generated treasure with spells 
already inscribed in it. The book appears as 
a blank spell book with 100 pages, unless 
a command word is spoken and the pages 
are revealed.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 21,250 gp
Craft Wondrous Item, silent image, secret 
page, secret chest
Bosu N’s call
Price 3,000 gp; Aura faint illusion; CL 3th; 
Weight — 
An enchanted sailors whistle, the bosun’s 
call makes loud clear notes to signal 
commands at a distance. When used, the 
whistle’s notes are magically carried to all 
allies within five miles.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 1,500 gp
Craft Wondrous Item, clarion call
coB’s dessicated  
riNg oF resista Nce
Price 4,000 gp; Aura faint abjuration;  
CL 6th; Weight — 
This hand wrought silver ring encompasses 
a black oval stone about an inch wide, on 
the flat surface of the stone are carved 
symbols and hieroglyphs. Wearing the ring 
grants the user a +2 resistance bonus to 
all saves, but causes the finger the ring is 
on to become old and dessicated, like a 
mummy. When the ring is worn the wearer 
takes a –2 penalty on Diplomacy checks, 
removing the ring restores the finger to its 
normal appearance. 
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 2,000 gp
Forge Ring, resistance
ear  B ead
Price 3,000 gp; Aura faint transmutation; 
CL 3rd; Weight —
This tiny clear glass bead has a large hole 
through it and nearly disappears when 
inserted into the wearers ear. When in 
contact with another ear bead and the 
command word is spoken, they become 
paired. With a thought, the wearer can 
choose to have any words they speak 
transmitted to any number of other ear 
beads that their bead has been paired 
with, so long as they are within one mile 
of the wearer. Ear beads only transmit 
the voice of the wearer, and this can be 
disrupted by magical silence.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 1,500 gp
Craft Wondrous Item, message
Cob’s dessi Cated
ring  of resistan Ce
202
dro P seal
Price 100 gp; Aura faint transmutation;  
CL 1st; Weight 1 oz.
Appearing as a vertical strip of parchment 
inscribed with arcane words and runes, this 
magically enchanted ribbon is often affixed 
with a wax seal. When pinned or glued 
onto an item, creature, or their vestments, 
the seal becomes activated automatically 
during free fall, causing the runes to glow 
like they are on fire. Approximately 30 
feet from the ground or any other surface, 
the seal causes the wearer to rapidly slow 
down and gently come to rest safely. Once 
the wearer is no longer falling the magic 
is consumed, leaving the slightly charred 
parchment strip. These items are often 
mass produced as cheaply as possible, and 
rarely fail. 
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 50 gp
Craft Wondrous Item, feather fall 
drop  seals
field  dok
203
Field  dok
Price 3,600 gp; Slot back; Aura moderate 
conjuration; CL 9th; Weight 10 lbs.
This heavy duty metal framed backpack 
is constructed from rugged dark green 
waterproofed canvas and has multiple 
straps securing it about the shoulders 
and waist, but what is most noticeable is 
the long articulated metal arm extending 
straight up from the top of the pack 
that curves down to about waist level 
ending with a set of pincers adorned with 
hypodermic needles, shears, or rolled 
bandage dispensers. The pack functions as 
a handy haversack and the arm functions 
like an alchemist’s Vestigial Arm. 
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 1,800 gp 
Craft Wondrous Item, secret chest
 
Multi -sMoke  B ottle
Price 360 gp; Aura faint transmutation;  
CL 3rd; Weight 2 lbs.
   This metal bottle is topped with a cork 
stopper sealed in wax. Around the neck of 
the bottle is a brass ring with an indicator 
that points to one of the many different 
colored painted indicators around the ring. 
When the cork is pulled the bottle begins 
to emit a large quantity of colored smoke, 
corresponding with the color selected with 
the indicator ring before activation. The 
amount of smoke is great, pouring from 
the bottle and totally obscuring vision 
across a 50-foot spread in 1 round. The 
bottle continues to billow out smoke for 
an additional 4 rounds, spreading another 
10 feet per round, after which the smoke 
dissipates normally. After the bottle is 
finished a moderate wind (11+ mph) 
disperses the smoke in 4 rounds; a strong 
wind (21+ mph) disperses the smoke in 1 
round. This is a single use magic item.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 180 gp 
Craft Wondrous Item, pyrotechnics
Musicia N’s arMory
Price 2,500 gp; Aura moderate 
conjuration; CL 9th; Weight 10 lbs. 
   This contemporary guitar case appears 
normal by all accounts. The case is 
constructed of a dense plywood and 
wrapped with tanned leather. The trim, 
buckles, and handle are all made from fine 
ivory. When opened, the silk-lined case 
appears normal, along with its ability to 
contain exactly one acoustic guitar. Upon 
detailed inspection, there is a small tab 
hidden under the fabric, which is attached 
to a false bottom. When the false bottom 
is opened, a large cabinet can be pulled 
up from a non-dimensional space. The 
cabinet unfolds into a 30 cubic foot shop 
space filled with shelves and gun racks. No 
matter what items are contained within 
the false bottom, the case will always 
weigh the same. Should the case be 
destroyed, all items contained within its 
non-dimensional space will be lost. Any 
living creatures placed within the case can 
only survive for a maximum of 10 minutes 
before they suffocate. Retrieving or storing 
an item within the armory in its unfolded 
state is a move action. Unfolding or folding 
the musician’s armory is a full round action. 
Magic items contained within the case will 
not benefit the owner of the case. 
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 1,250 gp 
Craft Wondrous Item, secret chest
oNe-tiMe P ad
Price 1,800 gp; Aura faint evocation;  
CL 9th; Weight — 
   This single use magic item is an 
enchanted blank sheet of vellum, 
separated into two parts. When a message 
is written on the sending sheet, it magically 
appears on the receiving sheet and the 
sending sheet is consumed in a brief 
heatless fire. There is no range limit on a 
one-time pad, however if the sheets are on 
204
different planes of existence there is a 5% 
chance of failure.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 900 gp 
Craft Wondrous Item, sending
oPerators  suPP ressor
Price 12,000 gp; Aura faint illusion;  
CL 3rd; Weight 1 lb. 
This hollow cylinder is made out of a dull 
gray metal and feels cool to the touch. 
When pressed against the muzzle of any 
one or two handed firearm, it resizes itself 
and attaches to the end of the barrel. When 
the firearm is used, all audible noise caused 
by the firearm is eliminated, this effect is 
also conferred upon the ammunition, but 
only to eliminate the noises associated 
with gunfire. With rapid and prolonged use 
the suppressor will start to radiate heat 
and may even begin to glow, however its 
sound dampening effect is not diminished. 
A full round action is required to remove 
the device allowing it to be used on a 
different firearm.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 6,000 gp 
Craft Wondrous Item, silence
Perso Nal  aMM o dru M
Price 5,800 gp; Slot back; Aura moderate 
transmutation; CL 9th; Weight 10 lbs.   
   This large rigid backpack is made of a 
drum constructed from lightweight metal. 
Its internal storage holds 2,000 rounds 
of ammunition and up to 80 pounds of 
additional gear. Magazines, projectiles, 
powder, casings, and loose bullets are kept 
in individual containers that mount inside 
the barrel, and belts of linked ammunition 
are fed into the barrel from the bottom 
and magically arrange themselves onto 
serpentine racks for easy dispensation. 
The inside of the barrel alters itself 
as needed to accommodate any 
combination. There is also a compartment 
for a gunsmith’s kit and powder barrel. 
Regardless of what quantities of these 
items are placed within the personal ammo 
drum, its weight does not change. As a 
swift action, the wearer can command the 
drum to fully reload a single firearm that he 
is wielding. When the wearer reaches into 
it for a specific item, that item is always on 
top. Thus, no digging around and fumbling 
is ever necessary to find what a personal 
ammo drum contains. Retrieving any 
specific item from a personal ammo drum 
is a move action, but it does not provoke 
the attacks of opportunity that retrieving a 
stored item usually does.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 2,900 gp 
Craft Wondrous Item, abundant 
ammunition, secret chest
personal
ammo  drum
205
sca BB ard  oF holdi Ng
Price 2,500 gp; Aura moderate 
conjuration; CL 9th; Weight 3 lbs.
   A plain leather wrapped metal scabbard, 
it is normally 6 inches long and 1 inch 
wide. The scabbard magically widens 
to accept any blade that is inserted, 
however the length does not change. The 
scabbard opens into a nondimensional 
space: its inside is larger than its outside 
dimensions. Regardless of what is put 
into the scabbard, it weighs 3 pounds. 
The scabbard can contain any one blade, 
however the hilt will always remain 
outside. 
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 1,250 gp
Craft Wondrous Item, secret chest
magi C Weapons
While any weapon can be enchanted 
and become a magic weapon, these 
unique magic weapons offer additional 
capabilities beyond what is normally 
available. 
Big  gaMe huNter  riFle
Price 10,300 gp; Aura moderate 
conjuration; CL 8th; Weight 15 lbs. 
   This +2 lever-action rifle was specially 
constructed to grant an extra 1d6 damage 
to creatures of a specific subtype (selected 
from the bane list during creation).
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 5,150 gp 
Craft Magic Arms and Armor, summon 
monster I
ghost  sMasher
Price 48,380 gp; Aura faint divination;  
CL 6th; Weight 14 lbs. 
   This amazing +2 cold iron ghost touch 
undead bane earthbreaker is coated in fine 
layers of red and white enamel with silver 
inlay. Whenever it is within the presence of 
undead(60 ft.), the hammer begins to emit 
an eerie tune and a magical blue flame 
lights up and rotates around the massive 
spiked head, this flame has no heat and 
does not burn anything, but its light 
illuminates and reveals the location of any 
undead in the area, including ones that are 
invisible.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 24,230 gp 
Craft Magic Arms and Armor, dancing 
lights, detect undead, faerie fire, ghost sound, 
plane shift, summon monster I 
ghost  smasher
206
gole MFist
Price 2,310 gp; Aura moderate 
transmutation; CL 5th; Weight 5 lb.
   This enormous spiked gauntlet allows 
its wielder to make attacks with it as 
though they were one size category 
larger and grants a +4 size bonus to 
strength checks. Claw variants have also 
been made that deliver slashing damage 
instead of piercing damage. Although the 
golemfist is constructed using magic, it 
is not considered a magic weapon unless 
subsequently enchanted. 
co Nstructio N require MeNts 
Cost 1,155 gp 
Craft Magic Arms and Armor, lead blades 
Magekiller
Price 56,315 gp; Aura faint necromancy; 
CL 6th; Weight 4 lbs. 
   This +2 longsword has a wide blade 
engraved with strange arcane runes and 
sigils. Upon wielding the magekiller, it 
instantly imparts the necessary skill to be 
used proficiently. Any creature capable 
of holding the longsword becomes 
proficient with the longsword for the 
duration that it is in their possession. The 
magekiller silently calls out to its owner, 
yearning for magic. If the wielder casts a 
spell that is resolved with a touch attack 
or ranged touch, they can decide to cast 
it into the sword. The sword will hold the 
cast spell, causing its runes to glow with 
eldritch power. The stored spell will be 
automatically delivered to the target of the 
next successful melee attack made with 
golemfist
207
the sword. The magekiller will store a spell 
for 24 hours, if another spell is cast into it 
while it holds a charge or the caster rests 
for 8 hours and restores their spell slots, 
any stored spell is dissipated and lost. 
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 28,165 gp 
Craft Magic Arms and Armor, bestow 
weapon proficiency, spectral hand
Mage ’s P istol
Price 19,300 gp; Aura moderate 
transmutation; CL 8th; Weight 4 lbs. 
   This +2 Semi-Automatic Handgun is 
made of silver that never needs to be 
polished, often adorned with fancy 
engraving and dangling charms. A mage’s 
pistol is especially effective against 
creatures with spell resistance. Against 
such creatures, the weapon’s effective 
enhancement bonus increases to +3, 
and it deals an additional 1d6 points of 
damage. Whenever the wielder casts a 
spell that requires him to make a ranged 
touch attack (such as a ray) while he has 
the pistol in hand, he gains a bonus on 
his ranged attack roll equal to the pistol’s 
enhancement bonus against the target 
creature. If the spell hits, the caster also 
applies this bonus to the caster level check 
to overcome the target’s spell resistance (if 
any) and on the spell’s damage roll (if any).
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 10,800 gp 
Craft Magic Arms and Armor, Spell 
Penetration, summon monster I, true strike
sile Nt seNtry  riFle
Price 39,300 gp; Aura moderate 
conjuration; CL 9th; Weight 2 lbs. 
   Popular with covert operatives and 
forward observers due to its ease of 
concealment and lack of need for 
ammunition, this +1 reliable lever action 
rifle is crafted from deeply blued steel and 
the stock is coated in a heavy black lacquer 
finish. It has an integrally mounted magical 
sound suppressor and creates its own 
infinite ammo, like an endless ammunition 
crossbow. When used in conjunction 
with the Stealth skill, the silent sentry rifle 
reduces the penalty imposed by sniping 
by 5. Three times per day, the wielder 
can fire two invisible magical bullets that 
deal no damage. These bullets must each 
be fired at a solid surface, into which 
they embed themselves. As long as both 
bullets have an unobstructed line between 
them, no longer than 180 feet, they create 
an invisible 1-inch-wide line between 
themselves. The wearer is mentally alerted 
anytime a visible Tiny or larger creature 
passes through this line, and gains a vision 
of the creature’s appearance. Creatures 
that can see invisible objects can see the 
line, and if they recognize it for what it is, 
they can duck under it or leap over it, thus 
avoiding detection. The bullets last for 6 
hours before they dissipate.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 20,300 gp 
Craft Magic Arms and Armor, alarm, minor 
creation, silence
sPell  stori Ng gre Nade
Price 8,350 gp; Aura strong evocation;  
CL 12th; Weight 2 lbs. 
   This +1 grenade is designed to store 
and discharge magic. A spellcaster can 
store a single targeted or area spell of 
up to 5th level in the grenade. (The spell 
must have a casting time of 1 standard 
action.) When the grenade detonates, the 
grenade immediately casts the spell on 
that creature as a free action. (This special 
ability is an exception to the general rule 
that casting a spell from an item takes at 
least as long as casting that spell normally.) 
If the grenade directly strikes a target, 
that target is considered to automatically 
fail any reflex save of the stored spell, if 

208
any. The grenade magically imparts to the 
wielder the name of the spell currently 
stored within it. A randomly rolled spell 
storing grenade has a 50% chance of 
having a spell stored in it already. A spell 
storing grenade emits a strong aura of the 
evocation school, plus the aura of the spell 
currently stored.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 4,350 gp 
Craft Magic Arms and Armor, creator must 
be a caster of at least 12th level.
the  B leeders
Price 42,604 gp; Aura faint divination;  
CL 6th; Weight 2 lbs. 
This pair of +1 Wounding daggers are 
barbed and hooked making removal 
difficult. Removing a dagger after a 
successful attack requires a standard 
action and a DC 15 Heal check or it deals 
an additional 2d4 damage. An enchanted 
gemstone in the pommel glows with a 
faint green magical light, and anyone who 
possesses one or both of the daggers 
receives a –10 penalty on saving throws 
against spells cast by their owner. A 
creature must possess both daggers for 
24 consecutive hours before they can take 
advantage of this effect.
co Nstructio N require MeNts
Cost 21,304 gp 
Craft Magic Arms and Armor, bleed, true strike
spell  storing
grenade  and 
ammunition
209
roughne Ck
There’s something funny about the way impending doom can make you nostalgic. 
Something about the specter of death looming about that makes your braincase rattle 
with nonsense. No matter what anyone goes through on day one with Sarge, nothing 
ever prepares you for inactivity. No amount of physical training or sleep deprivation 
makes a man for what happens when he has to stay completely still. Ironic how that 
fateful day of Savage Company orientation would somehow prepare me for this. The 
nonsense I mentioned would be just that, remaining completely still. Who knew the 
drill sergeants jamming their tusks in my face would actually help me. They were 
sadists, but not without a purpose. I bet they’d eat their own boots to see me in the 
position I’m in now.
My military service began as an infantryman, grunt with a gun. You know the type. 
Dig that foxhole, take that hill, rush that trench. Boots on the ground are what make 
the wheels on the war machine go round. But in my case… I was different. I stood 
out among all the young and hopeful trainees, and it wasn’t due only to my drive 
and above-average performance. Much to my surprise, the instructors always look 
for something unique. My quirk was being able to count without using my fingers 
and toes, which was only bolstered by my ability to react quickly to rapidly shifting 
battlefield details. I was once convinced that Drill Sergeant Hornezs needed help tying 
his own boots in the morning. I was wrong.
Shortly after, I found myself in a reconnaissance unit. Mostly bugbears, half-orcs, and 
hobgoblins which is the typical lot for this sort of thing. Being an orc with admirable 
math skills made me the minority for once. However, that’s what they needed. Math 
skills and critical thinking. If I could make the cut, I was to become a Forward Observer, 
an expert in directing artillery strikes, long-mage bombardments, and other fun 
munitions and ways to blow lots of people up with staggering precision. Sure, snipers 
get all the love, maybe because people think everything is done through scrying, or 
perhaps the public has a thing for people that dress up as trees. Despite the social 
aspect, the work is very similar in nature. The risk is still the same. The difference is they 
kill one at a time, whereas I will kill hundreds. But alas, no glory for the FO.
Fast forward a few years of horrible pay, a slew of gams leaving me for one reason or 
another... And there I was. Earned me a big promotion doing the same sort of work for 
Savage Company, but enjoying it a hell of a lot more. The problem is, I was married to 
my job, and I quickly developed the typical FO’s loss of interest in anything that isn’t a 
shrapnel pattern. That is, enjoying it except for this whole “impending death” thing, of 
course…
The mission was straightforward. Intel managed to beat the information out of 
enough people to figure out where my high-value target was. A mostly-intact school, 
210
located right smack dab in the middle of a bombed-out town deep in enemy territory. 
It took balls to hide himself like that and still use child soldiers and magic to launch and 
coordinate his insurgency, I’ll give him that. The clever bastard managed to hit one of 
our nearby air stations with several swarms of flying nailbomb golems, taking out all 
aerial operations for at least four days. Maybe that doesn’t sound like much to most, but 
that’s at least four days without air support, medevac, resupply, or a faster ride home. 
This guy hit us where it hurts, and there were a lot of hungry, angry, bleeding grunts 
that would throw a month’s pay at the dead-pool on this shithead. Intel gave me what I 
needed to get a bead on him, and I wanted that money.
Rather than making it easy, I was explicitly instructed to keep the school standing. 
Something about hearts and minds, something about maintaining the right kind of 
reputation. I didn’t agree with it, but I didn’t like the idea of a Pyrrhic victory. Blow up 
the school, and we would just create more angry insurgents. And so, the plan was 
hatched. I would go in on my own with my trusty companion at my side, find the 
school, get a positive ID on my HVT. Intel said he stayed in the atrium. If everything 
they said was right, the atrium would have a plate glass roof that was held up by 
load-bearing walls. Assuming the bastard was there, I would coordinate the precision 
strike to drop some ordinance down his throat. My days as an FO made me excited 
when I thought about all the ordnance we would be dropping on that shithead. Some 
would call it fish in a barrel. Not for ease of completion, mind you. The point was that 
he needed to die in the worst way. Using golems like he did was one thing, but using 
children was another. It was a principle of morality more than anything.
So there I was, pressed against a wall in the darkness. Princess, my trusty Military 
Working Worg, stalked the patrolling guard from a different shadow. The remnants of 
smoke and old embers left to fizzle out had cast a peculiar scent on the fire-blasted 
buildings. It also made the patrolling guard utterly unaware of the tripwire he was 
about to set off. The wounding trap was her idea, whether you believe it or not. The 
results were well worth the ass pain of carrying a few pounds of adamantine for the 
trap, and Princess could be quite malicious. Watching a little rope, gunpowder, and an 
adamantine dagger turn someone into a pin cushion never got old. With the bugger 
taking a dirt nap, Princess took off to scout ahead while I quietly made my way deeper 
into the town. 
This here is the part that got my head rumblin’ with that trip down memory lane. 
One of the guards noticed his buddy was gone, and he was fixin’ to go figure out 
why. I managed to duck down behind what used to be a store wall, masked by a thick 
plume of smoke that rolled off whatever turned the wall into big rocks. I was still 
partially exposed, so I had to remain as perfectly motionless as I could manage. I had 
to slow my breathing as much as possible and be as still as the stones. But let me tell 
you, I was stressed beyond belief. The guard stopped right as he turned the corner, 
pondered something, then started moving right towards me. My heart must’ve gone 
into overdrive at the thought of blowing this mission when I was so close. The dumbass 
211
strolled right up to the edge of the smoke, looked right past me, and kicked some dirt 
into the smoldering crater. I didn’t anticipate the bugger to do that, though Princess 
did. Before you know it, 300lbs of intelligent fury pounced on the guy with his whole 
neck in her mouth. Poor bastard couldn’t even yelp before she clocked him out for 
good. Worgs are something else, I tell you. They said us Savage Co lot were crazy for 
even attempting to train them, but here we are.
Princess calmly trotted right up to me, looking like she was trying her paw at red 
warpaint. ‘Cept, she looked like she dunked her whole damn face in the bucket.
“Roh, romerone rosing der touch?” She muttered to me. For the record, I think MWW’s 
would be perfect if they didn’t come with a smart ass mouth capable of some basic 
Common.
“Yeah yeah, funny. Let’s keep moving. We ain’t got much longer until sunrise, ” I told 
her.
Getting to the school was rather uneventful after that. I suppose my target didn’t 
anticipate someone being able to travel long distances on foot, live off the land, and 
sneak in. Some might say I was lucky to have this part easy, but luck ain’t part of the job. 
Luck don’t land your ordinance exactly where you want it. Skill does.
Princess and I managed to sneak into the third story of a mostly-intact building, 
adjacent to the school. I left some more traps on the first and second floors, just in case. 
One to let me know we were compromised, and another to slow the bastards down. I 
had Princess patrol the middle floor in the meantime. Her keen senses were far better 
than mine, so sending her to cover my ass was a natural choice. As for the school, I 
could see the atrium, but the angle was all wrong. I could only make out the top of the 
glass plate, though that wasn’t much of a problem. I brought a flying golem of my own, 
tricked out to give me a little eye in the sky when I needed it. I prepared the golem and 
let it slip out of what used to be a window, and off it buzzed into the night sky. The tiny 
little gnat whipped around the top of the building for a minute, randomly stopping 
here or there before making a beeline back to me.
I turned the golem on its back and revealed the semiprecious gemstone in the belly, 
and it spat out a small projection of what it saw through the glass roof. Lots of boxes, 
guns, some tables, paperwork scattered about, and one supremely boned HVT. Poor 
bastard had no idea what was about to hit him. I swapped the gemstones out on the 
golem and pulled out my sending sheet from the one-time pad. Really useful stuff for 
sending a one-way message. I signed the coordinates and the confirmation on the 
parchment and watched it turn to ash with a little puff of arcane fire. I sent the golem 
back out to watch the show since Headquarters needed proof of the kill.
See, I forgot to mention… There was an artillery barge on station, waiting for me to 
confirm the target. Unfortunately, I didn’t get to call the big gun down. School had to 
212
iConi C battle  
Chaplain  Cleri C
The iconic battle chaplain seems harsh 
and short with people only because she 
cares more about their personal safety 
than their immediate feelings, and while 
she does care about her friends’ feelings, 
they have to be alive to have them.
ico Nic  B attle  cha Plai N 1         cr  1
XP 400
Female Baadan Battle Chaplain Cleric 1
NG Medium humanoid (baadan)
Init +1; Senses darkvision, low-light vision, 
scent, Perception +3
DEFENSE
AC 22, touch 13, flat-footed 21 (+5 armor, 
+2 deflection +1 dex, +4 shield)
hp 9 (1d8+1)
Fort +3, Ref +1, Will +5 (+7 vs fear)
OFFENSE
Speed 30 ft. (20 ft. with armor)
Melee light flail +2 (1d8+2)
Special Attacks channel positive energy 4/
day 1d6 +50% (healing only)
Cleric Spells Prepared (CL 1st; 
concentration +4)
stay standing and all that. But these airship gunners, they’re crack shots when you give 
’em a good grid. And let me tell you, these boiz cracked the sky like some vengeful 
deity throwing a lance from the heavens. The shot pierced the glass roof and slammed 
down on the HVT so hard that the bastard threw an impressive four-story tall column of 
pink mist. Blew out all the windows in the atrium, but I kept my word. The school was 
still standing. Getting out would be as easy as getting in, just had to avoid the group on 
their way to the school. The golem got the whole thing recorded and quickly made its 
way back to me. Of course, I was going to give HQ the gemstone, but I needed to visit 
an old friend first. Hornezs loved this stuff and couldn’t get enough. Said it looked like a 
hell of a rush, and that it made him want to transfer to an airborne artillery unit. Bastard 
never understood my side of things, but alas… No glory for the FO.
iConi C statblo Cks
the  follo Wing  iConi Cs are  made  With  a 20 point  buy  
and  outfitted  With  gear  as  if  they  Were  appropriately  
le Veled  player  Chara Cters , this  makes  them  more  
Challenging  than  a normal  npC if  used  as  an 
ad Versary . they  are  also  Written  for  a Campaign  
setting  using  the  “guns  eVery Where ” modifi Cation . 
they  are  not  meant  to  represent  the  most  po Werful  
Combinations  aVailable  but  What  a typi Cal  ad Venturer  
of  the  gi Ven  Class  Would  resemble  and  to  represent  
the  gi Ven  ra Ces  and  ar Chetypes . they  Can  be  used  as 
npCs or  as  pregenerated  player  Chara Cters .
213
1st—bless, shield of faith
0th (at will)—detect magic, light, stabilize
tactics
Before Combat The iconic battle chaplain 
casts shield of faith.
During Combat The iconic battle chaplain 
attacks creatures that are attacking her 
allies, but focuses on buffing teammates 
and keeping them healed.
Base Statistics
Without shield of faith, her statistics are AC 
20, touch 11, flat-footed 19.
statistics
Str 14, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 12, Wis 16, 
Cha 12
Base Atk +0; CMB +2; CMD 12
Feats Selective Channeling
Skills Diplomacy +6, Heal +7, Knowledge 
(religion) +5
Languages Common, Baadan, Jargon
SQ aura
Gear tower shield, scale mail, light flail, 
backpack, bedroll, belt pouch, candles 
(10), cheap holy text, flint and steel, iron 
pot, mess kit, rope, soap, spell component 
pouch, torches (10), trail rations (5 days), 
waterskin, wooden holy symbol with 
compartment, 41 gp
ico Nic  B attle  cha Plai N 7         cr  7
XP 3,200
Female Baadan Battle Chaplain Cleric 7
NG Medium humanoid (baadan)
Init +2; Senses darkvision, low-light vision, 
scent, Perception +4
de FeNse
AC 26, touch 15 (20 vs firearms), flat-footed 
24 (+8 armor, +3 deflection +2 dex, +3 
shield)
hp 45 (7d8+14)
Fort +7, Ref +4, Will +9 (+11 vs fear)
oFF eNse
Speed 30 ft. (20 ft. with armor)
Melee +1 battle censer +9 (1d8+4)
Special Attacks channel positive energy 4/
day 4d6 +50% (healing only, 35ft radius)
Cleric Spells Prepared (CL 7th; 
concentration +11)
4th—holy smite, freedom of movement
3rd—create food and water, bullet sphere, 
remove curse
2nd—align weapon, bear’s endurance, 
bull’s strength, ghostbane dirge
1st—bless, shield of faith, bane, command, 
stone shield
0th (at will)—detect magic, light, stabilize, 
mending
tactics
Before Combat The iconic battle chaplain 
casts shield of faith.
During Combat The iconic battle chaplain 
attacks creatures that are attacking her 
allies, but focuses on buffing teammates 
and keeping them healed.
Base Statistics
Without shield of faith, her statistics are AC 
23, touch 12, flat-footed 21.
statistics
Str 14, Dex 15, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 18, 
Cha 12
Base Atk +5; CMB +7; CMD 18
Feats  Power Attack, Quick Channel, 
Reactive Healing, Selective Channeling
Skills Diplomacy +12, Heal +14, 
Knowledge (religion) +11

214
Languages Common, Baadan, Jargon
SQ aura
Gear +1 deployable shield, +2 savage plate, 
+1 battle censer,  backpack, bedroll, belt 
pouch, candles (10), cheap holy text, flint 
and steel, iron pot, mess kit, rope, soap, 
spell component pouch, torches (10), 
trail rations (5 days), waterskin, silver holy 
symbol with compartment, headband 
of inspired wisdom +2, belt of incredible 
dexterity +2, large trauma kit, 575 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Weapon Training (Ex): flails +1    
ico Nic  B attle  cha Plai N 12     cr  12
XP 19,200
Female Baadan Battle Chaplain Cleric 12
NG Medium humanoid (baadan)
Init +3; Senses darkvision, low-light 
vision, scent, Perception +18
deFeNse
AC 30, touch 17 (22 vs firearms), flat-
footed 28 (+9 armor, +4 deflection +3 dex, 
+4 shield)
hp 90 (12d8+36)
Fort +15, Ref +11, Will +16 (+18 vs fear)
oFFeNse
Speed 30 ft. (20 ft. with armor)
Melee +3 battle censer +19 (1d8+10)
Special Attacks channel positive energy 
7/day 6d6 +50% (healing only, 40ft radius)
Cleric Spells Prepared (CL 12th; 
concentration +16)
6th—blade barrier, heroes’ feast
5th—flame strike, hallow, atonement
4th—holy smite, freedom of movement, 
forceful strike, tongues
3rd—create food and water, bullet sphere, 
remove curse, daylight, stone shape
2nd—align weapon, bear’s endurance, 
bull’s strength, ghostbane dirge, spiritual 
weapon
1st—bless, shield of faith, bane, 
command, stone shield
0th (at will)—detect magic, light, 
stabilize, mending
tactics
Before Combat The iconic battle chaplain 
casts shield of faith.
During Combat The iconic battle chaplain 
attacks creatures that are attacking her 
allies, but focuses on buffing teammates 
and keeping them healed.
Base Statistics
Without shield of faith, her statistics are AC 
26, touch 13, flat-footed 24.
STATISTICS
Str 16, Dex 16, Con 16, Int 14, Wis 18, 
Cha 15
Base Atk +9; CMB +12; CMD 25
Feats Channeled Revival, Extra Channel, 
Power Attack, Quick Channel, Reactive 
Healing, Selective Channeling
Skills Diplomacy +18, Heal +20, 
Knowledge (religion) +17, Perception +18
Languages Common, Baadan, Jargon
SQ aura
Gear +2 deployable shield, +3 savage plate, 
+3 battle censer,  backpack, bedroll, belt 
pouch, candles (10), cheap holy text, flint 
and steel, iron pot, mess kit, rope, soap, 
spell component pouch, torches (10), 
trail rations (5 days), waterskin, silver holy 
symbol with compartment, headband 
of mental superiority +2, belt of physical 
perfection +2, large trauma kit, candle of 
invocation, incense of meditation, cloak of 
resistance +4, 7765 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Weapon Training (Ex): flails +2, close +1
iConi C blitzkrieg  
unChained  barbarian
WAAAH! The iconic blitzkrieg barbarian 
shoots first and gloats later, never bring 
a sword to a machine gun fight. If at first 
you don’t succeed, get mad and use more 
bullets!
215
ico Nic  B litzkrieg  1                  cr  1
XP 400
Male Savage Orc Blitzkrieg Unchained 
Barbarian 1
CN Medium humanoid (orc)
Init +3; Senses darkvision, Perception +4
de FeNse
AC 13, touch 13, flat-footed 10 (+3 dex)
hp 14 (1d12+2)
Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +0
oFF eNse
Speed 40 ft.
Melee advanced bayonet +2 (1d6+2/18–20)
Ranged submachine gun +4 (1d8/x4)
Special Attack automatic +2 line attack 
(1d8/x4)
tactics
During Combat The iconic blitzkrieg uses 
his movement to line up enemies for line 
attacks, if he has trouble hitting or takes 
damage he rages.
Rage Statistics
When raging his statistics are modified as 
follows: +2 firearm attack and damage and 
will saves, –2 AC, +2 temporary HP .
statistics
Str 14, Dex 16, Con 15, Int 10, Wis 11, 
Cha 10
Base Atk +1; CMB +4; CMD 17
Feats Heavy Brute
Skills Craft (firearms) +4, Intimidate +4, 
Perception +4, Survival +4
Languages Common, Orc
Gear submachine gun, advanced bayonet, 
backpack, belt pouch, blanket, flint and 
steel, iron pot, rope, soap, torches (10), trail 
rations (5 days), waterskin, 16 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Ferocity (Ex)
Fast Movement (Ex)
Gun Rage (Ex): 7/day
ico Nic  B litzkrieg  7                  cr  7
XP 3,200
Male Savage Orc Blitzkrieg Unchained 
Barbarian 7
CN Medium humanoid (orc)
Init +4; Senses darkvision, Perception +11
de FeNse
AC 19, touch 15, flat-footed 15 (+4 armor, 
+4 dex, +1 deflection)
hp 66 (7d12+21)
Fort +8, Ref +6, Will +3 (+7 vs spells and 
spell-like abilities while raging)
DR 1/–, DR 3/slashing
oFF eNse
Speed 40 ft.
Melee bludgeon +8/+3 (2d8+4)
Ranged +1 modern light machine gun (one-
handed, automatic) +8/+3 (2d8+1/x4)
Special Attacks Two-weapon fighting 
+4/+4/-1/-1 (2d8+1/x4), Two-weapon 
fighting/twin-linked +0/+0/+0/+0/–5/–5/–
5/–5 (2d8+1/x4)
tactics
During Combat The iconic blitzkrieg uses 
his movement to line up enemies for line 
attacks, if he has trouble hitting or takes 
damage he rages.
Gun Rage Statistics
When gun raging his statistics are modified 
as follows: +3 firearm attack, +2 will saves 
and damage (+3 bonus on damage rolls 

216
against creatures possessing spells or spell-
like abilities), -2 AC, and +14 temporary HP .
statistics
Str 16, Dex 18, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 12, 
Cha 10
Base Atk +7; CMB +11; CMD 25
Feats Heavy Brute, Improved Two-Weapon 
Fighting, Leadership, Two-Weapon Fighting
Skills Craft (firearms) +10, Intimidate +10, 
Perception +11, Survival +11
Languages Common, orc
Gear +1 modern light machine gun x4, 
+1 shooters plate, backpack, belt pouch, 
blanket, flint and steel, iron pot, rope, 
soap, torches (10), trail rations (5 days), 
waterskin, belt of physical might +2 Str/Dex, 
ring of protection +1, 150 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Ferocity (Ex)
Fast Movement (Ex)
Gun Rage (Ex): 26/day
Barrel Bludgeon (Ex)
MORE GUNS (Ex)
Twin-linked (Ex)
Rage Powers (Ex): accurate stance, 
superstition, witch hunter
sNot                                         cr  5
XP 1,600
Male Goblin Pack-Mule Fighter 5
CN Small humanoid (goblinoid)
Init +3; Senses darkvision, Perception +0
de FeNse
AC 19, touch 15, flat-footed 15 (+4 armor, 
+3 dex, +1 size, +1 dodge)
hp 37 (5d10+10)
Fort +6, Ref +4, Will +1
oFF eNse
Speed 30 ft.
Melee advanced bayonet +9 (1d3+3/19–20)
Ranged Medium sub-machine gun +10 
(automatic) (1d8+1/x4)
TACTICS
During Combat Snot tries to stay out of 
his master’s way while staying useful. He 
mends guns, carries ammo, and sometimes 
uses his sub-machine gun to defend his 
master.
statistics
Str 14, Dex 16, Con 15, Int 11, Wis 11, 
Cha 10
Base Atk +5; CMB +6; CMD 19
Feats Ankle Biter, Dodge, Exotic Weapon 
Proficiency (one-handed sub-machine 
gun), Goblin Gunslinger, Roll With It
Skills Acrobatics +8, Craft (firearms) +8, 
Escape artist +8, Sleight of Hand +11 
Stealth +19
Languages Common, Goblin
Gear medium masterwork sub-machine 
gun with bayonet lugs and sling, 
small masterwork advanced bayonet, 
masterwork chain shirt, backpack, bedroll, 
belt pouch, flint and steel, gunsmith’s 
kit, iron pot, mess kit, powder horn, 
rope, torches (10), trail rations (5 days), 
waterskin, muleback cords, bag of holding 
type III, fragmentation grenade, 250 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Unobtrusive (Ex)
Efficient Packer (Ex)
Weight Training (Ex)
Weapon Training (Ex): firearms
ico Nic  B litzkrieg  12              cr  12
XP 19,200
Male Savage Orc Blitzkrieg Unchained 
Barbarian 12
CN Medium humanoid (orc)
Init +6; Senses darkvision, Perception +16
de FeNse
AC 21, touch 17, flat-footed 15 (+4 armor, 
+6 dex, +1 deflection)
hp 114 (12d12+36)
Fort +15, Ref +14, Will +9 (+14 vs spells 
and spell-like abilities while raging)
DR 2/– (4/– when raging), DR 3/slashing
217
oFF eNse
Speed 40 ft.
Melee bludgeon +17/+12/+7 (2d8+4)
Ranged +2 modern light machine gun (one-
handed, automatic) +17/+12/+7 (2d8+2/x4)
Special Attack Two-weapon fighting 
+13/+13/+8/+8/+3/+3 (2d8+2/x4), 
Two-weapon fighting/twin-linked 
+9/+9/+9/+9/+4/+4/+4/+4/-1/-1/–1/–1 
(2d8+2/x4)
tactics
During Combat The iconic blitzkrieg uses 
his movement to line up enemies for line 
attacks, if he has trouble hitting or takes 
damage he rages.
Gun Rage Statistics
When gun raging his statistics are modified 
as follows: +6 firearm attack, +3 will saves 
and damage (+6 bonus on damage rolls 
against creatures possessing spells or spell-
like abilities), -2 AC, and +36 temporary HP .
statistics
Str 18, Dex 22, Con 16, Int 10, Wis 12, 
Cha 12
Base Atk +12; CMB +17; CMD 33
Feats Greater Two-Weapon Fighting, Heavy 
Brute, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, 
Leadership, Two-Weapon Fighting, Weapon 
Focus (modern light machine gun), 
Skills Craft (firearms) +15, Intimidate +16, 
Perception +16, Survival +16
Languages Common, Orc
Gear +2 modern light machine gun x4, 
+1 mithral shooters plate, backpack, belt 
pouch, blanket, flint and steel, iron pot, rope, 
soap, torches (10), trail rations (5 days), 
waterskin, belt of physical might +4 Str/Dex, 
ring of protection +1, headband of alluring 
charisma +2, cloak of resistance +4, personal 
ammo drum, 3850 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Ferocity (Ex)
Fast Movement (Ex)
Gun Rage (Ex): 41/day
Barrel Bludgeon (Ex)
MORE GUNS (Ex)
Twin-linked (Ex)
Greater Gun Rage (Ex)
Rage Powers (Ex): accurate stance, 
superstition, witch hunter, increased 
damage reduction, deadly accuracy, flesh 
wound 
sNot                                       cr  10
XP 9,600
Male Goblin Pack-Mule Fighter 10
CN Small humanoid (goblinoid)
Init +3; Senses darkvision, Perception +0
de FeNse
AC 22, touch 16, flat-footed 17 (+6 armor, 
+4 dex, +1 size, +1 dodge)
hp 85 (10d10+30)
Fort +13, Ref +11, Will +7
oFF eNse
Speed 40 ft.
Melee advanced bayonet +14/9 
(1d3+4/19–20)
Ranged Medium +1 sub-machine gun 
+16/11 (automatic) (1d8+4/x4)
tactics
During Combat Snot tries to stay out of his 
master’s way while staying useful. He mends 
guns, carries ammo, and sometimes uses his 
sub-machine gun to defend his master.

218
statistics
Str 16, Dex 18, Con 16, Int 11, Wis 11, 
Cha 10
Base Atk +10; CMB +12; CMD 26
Feats Amateur Gunslinger (quick clear), 
Ankle Biter, Dodge, Exotic weapon 
proficiency (one-handed sub-machine 
gun), Goblin Gunslinger, Gunsmith, 
Mobility, Roll With It, Tangle Feet, 
Underfoot
Skills Acrobatics +14, Craft (firearms) +13, 
Escape artist +14, Sleight of hand +16, 
Stealth +25
Languages Common, Goblin
Gear medium +1 sub-machine gun with 
masterwork advanced bayonet and sling, +2 
chain shirt, backpack, bedroll, belt pouch, 
flint and steel, gunsmith’s kit, iron pot, 
mess kit, powder horn, rope, torches (10), 
trail rations (5 days), waterskin, muleback 
cords, bag of holding type IV, grenade kit, 
cloak of resistance +4, boots of striding and 
springing, belt of physical might +2 Str/Dex, 
large trauma kit, 500 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Unobtrusive (Ex)
Efficient Packer (Ex)
Weight Training (Ex)
Weapon Training (Ex): firearms +2
Advanced Weapon Training (Ex): Weapon 
Specialist(weapon specialization(sub-
machine gun)/weapon focus(sub-machine 
gun))
Grit (Ex): 1 quick clear deed
iConi C bugler  bard
The iconic bugler bard is an irrepressible 
optimist and early-riser. She always sees 
the best in her unit and assumes everyone 
can rely on each other in a mutual feeling 
of teamwork and camaraderie.
ico Nic  B ugler  1                       cr  1
XP 400
Female Savage Kobold Bugler 1
N Small humanoid (reptilian)
Init +2; Senses darkvision, Perception +7
deFeNse
AC 17, touch 13, flat-footed 15 (+3 armor, +2 
dex, +1 natural armor, +1 size)
hp 13 (1d8+5)
Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +3
oFFeNse
Speed 30 ft.
Melee advanced bayonet +0 (1d3/19–20)
Bard Spells Known (CL 1st; concentration 
+4)
1st (2/day)—clarion call, ear-piercing scream
0th (at will)—know direction, mending, 
message, prestidigitation
tactics
During Combat The iconic bugler uses her 
Bardic performances to bolster her allies and 
occasionally casts spells. Out of combat she 
applies her cantrips and knowledge to lend in 
negotiations and tactical communication.
statistics
Str 11, Dex 15, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 12, Cha 16
Base Atk +0; CMB –1; CMD 11
Feats Toughness
Skills  Diplomacy +7, Knowledge (local) 
+6, Perception +7, Perform (percussion) +7, 
Sense Motive +5, Spellcraft +5, and Use Magic 
Device +7
Languages Common, Draconic, Jargon
Gear advanced bayonet, studded leather,  
backpack, bedroll, belt pouch, common 
drum, flint and steel, ink, inkpen, iron pot, 
journal, mess kit, mirror, rope, soap, torches 
(10), trail rations (5 days), waterskin 29 gp
sPecial aBilities
Bardic Knowledge (Su)
Bardic Performance (Su): 8 rds/day, reveille, 
boots and saddles
Countersong (Su)
Inspire Courage (Su): +1
219
ico Nic  B ugler  7                       cr  7
XP 3,200
Female Savage Kobold Bugler 7
N Small humanoid (reptilian)
Init +8; Senses darkvision, Perception +7
de FeNse
AC 19, touch 14, flat-footed 16 (+4 armor, 
+3 dex, +1 natural armor, +1 size)
hp 52 (7d8+21)
Fort +3, Ref +9, Will +6
DR 3/slashing
oFF eNse
Speed 30 ft.
Melee advanced bayonet +5 (1d3/18–20)
Ranged  masterwork grenade launcher 
+10 (x2)
Bard Spells Known (CL 7th; 
concentration +11)
3rd (2/day)—clairaudience/clairvoyance, 
cure serious wounds
2nd (4/day)—cat’s grace, bullet ward, 
eagle’s splendor, full pouch
1st (5/day)—clarion call, ear-piercing 
scream, cure light wounds, expeditious 
retreat, summon monster I
0th (at will)—know direction, mending, 
message, prestidigitation, summon 
instrument, light 
tactics
During Combat The iconic bugler uses 
her Bardic performances to bolster her 
allies and occasionally casts spells. Out 
of combat she applies her cantrips and 
knowledge to lend in negotiations and 
tactical communication.
statistics
Str 11, Dex 18, Con 12, Int 12, Wis 12, 
Cha 18
Base Atk +5; CMB +4; CMD 17
Feats Extra Performance, Improved 
Initiative, Lingering Performance, 
Toughness
Skills  Diplomacy +14, Knowledge (local) 
+12, Perception +13, Perform (percussion) 
+16, Sense Motive +11, Spellcraft +11, and 
Use Magic Device +14
Languages Common, Draconic, Jargon
Gear advanced bayonet, +1 shooter’s plate, 
masterwork grenade launcher, backpack, 
bedroll, belt pouch, masterwork drum, flint 
and steel, ink, inkpen, iron pot, journal, 
mess kit, mirror, rope, soap, torches (10), trail 
rations (5 days), waterskin, grenade kit, small 
trauma kit, belt of incredible dexterity +2, 
headband of alluring charisma +2, 4425 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Bardic Knowledge (Su)
Bardic Performance (Su): 26 rds/
day, reveille, boots and saddles, guard 
mounting
Countersong (Su)
Inspire Courage (Su): +2
Versatile performance (Su)
Well-versed (Su)
Inspire Competence (Su) +3
ico Nic  B ugler  12                   cr  12
XP 19,200
Female Savage Kobold Bugler 12
N Small humanoid (reptilian)
Init +8; Senses darkvision, Perception +18
de FeNse
AC 24, touch 17, flat-footed 21 (+6 armor, 
+3 deflection, +3 dex, +1 natural armor, +1 
size, +2 luck vs firearms)
hp 102 (12d8+48)
Fort +13, Ref +17, Will +15
DR 3/slashing

220
oFF eNse
Speed 30 ft.
Melee advanced bayonet +10 (1d3/18–20)
Ranged masterwork grenade launcher 
+14 (x2)
Bard Spells Known (CL 12th; 
concentration +16)
4th (4/day)—cure critical wounds, 
discordant blast, ghostbane dirge, mass, 
primal scream
3rd (5/day)—clairaudience/clairvoyance, 
cure serious wounds, daylight, feather 
step, mass
2nd (6/day)—cat’s grace, bullet ward, 
eagle’s splendor, full pouch, cure moderate 
wounds
1st (7/day)—clarion call, ear-piercing 
scream, cure light wounds, expeditious 
retreat, summon monster I,  jury-rig
0th (at will)—know direction, mending, 
message, prestidigitation, summon 
instrument, light
tactics
During Combat The iconic bugler uses 
her Bardic performances to bolster her 
allies and occasionally casts spells. Out 
of combat she applies her cantrips and 
knowledge to lend in negotiations and 
tactical communication.
statistics
Str 13, Dex 18, Con 14, Int 14, Wis 14, 
Cha 20
Base Atk +9; CMB +9; CMD 22
Feats Extra Performance, Grasping Tail, 
Improved Initiative, Kobold Confidence, 
Lingering Performance, Toughness
Skills  Diplomacy +20, Knowledge (local) 
+17, Perception +18, Perform (percussion) 
+22, Sense Motive +18, Spellcraft +17, and 
Use Magic Device +21
Languages Common, Draconic, Jargon
Gear advanced bayonet, +3 shooter’s plate, 
masterwork grenade launcher, backpack, 
bedroll, belt pouch, masterwork drum, flint 
and steel, ink, inkpen, iron pot, journal, 
mess kit, mirror, rope, soap, torches (10), 
trail rations (5 days), waterskin, grenade kit, 
small trauma kit, belt of physical perfection 
+2, headband of mental superiority +2, ring 
of protection +3, cloak of resistance +4, bag 
of holding type IV, drum of advance and 
retreat, 3925 gp
sPecial  aBilities
Bardic Knowledge (Su)
Bardic Performance (Su): 37 rds/
day, reveille, boots and saddles, guard 
mounting, cadence
Countersong (Su)
Inspire Courage (Su): +3
Versatile performance (Su): 3
Well-versed (Su)
Inspire Competence (Su): +4
Inspire Greatness (Su)
Jack-of-all-Trades (Su)
Soothing Performance (Su)
iConi C Combat   
medi C alChemist
The iconic combat medic is the glue 
and tape that holds the squad together. 
Once you get past his imposing presence, 
his pleasant bedside manner and jolly 
demeanor endear him almost as much as 
his passion for patching up his friends and 
looking out for their well being.
ico Nic  coMB at  M edic  1            cr  1
XP 400
Male Baadan Combat Medic Alchemist 1
NG Medium humanoid (baadan)
Init +1; Senses darkvision, low-light vision, 
scent, Perception +5
de FeNse
AC 16, touch 11, flat-footed 15 (+5 armor, 
+1 dex)
hp 10 (1d8+1)
Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +1 (+3 vs fear)
